THE COALITION OF FREE STATES
The majority of people living today, roughly 80%, are
members of the Coalition of Free States. Founded and backed
by the six Houses, the Coalition claims all explored space as its
domain.
After the destruction of Earth and the resulting Exodus,
humanity found itself desperate and lost. For most of the
survivors, the corporations responsible for organizing and
carrying out the Exodus were the only sort of order to be found
in their lives.
Those corporations, with the backing of those they saved,
eventually rose up and created a new government. The Alliance
and Federation were cast aside. And on October 20th, 72 PS the
corporations signed the Consolidation Concord. This founding
document officially established the six most influential
corporate conglomerates as Houses, and created a Senate
composed of members of each House to act as their guiding
body.
The heart of the Coalition government is now located on
Olympus, while the individual Houses maintain separate
capitals across multiple planets and even moons.
A Consociationalist Government
The Coalition features a direct representational government,
wherein all recognized members of all six Houses may cast
votes on any laws put forth by an elected Senate.
The Senate consists of seven members of each House,
elected by members of their House. The primary role of the
senators is to determine which laws come up for vote, interpret
the Coalition’s laws, and place citizens into positions of lesser
authority.
The Coalition’s laws are gathered into the Consolidation
Concord, which defines the role of the Coalition government in
relationship to the House Charters, which define laws specific
to the Houses themselves.
Any Coalition citizen may challenge any law at any time. If
that person is able to gather three million signatures via
Extranet petition within one year, a vote must be scheduled
where voters decide whether to accept or reject the law.
Of course, since a citizen’s Rep-Rating determines the weight
of his vote, politicians most often champion laws that benefit
high-Rep citizens over those of lower Rep, such as the recent
increase to the maximum rating a person can have.
The fact that the politicians themselves have high Rep
doesn’t do much to deter the favoritism. This, of course, leads
to dissent among those of lower Rep. Because of their low Rep
ratings, though, their votes count for little and they find it very
difficult to get anyone to listen to their criticisms.
Lifestyle
Even the lowliest Coalition citizens can manage a pretty
healthy and happy lifestyle. The government provides a default
standard of living for all. Even those who never set out to
accomplish anything are given the food, shelter, and security
necessary to not only survive, but to be happy.
It is estimated that roughly 19% of Coalition citizens choose
to default; thanks to modern technology, they get just about
anything they need at a negligible cost to themselves.
Compilers are provided to each household. Even those who
default are granted one—although it might be a little small.
Even the most basic compilers come with free templates for
most household items, though.81
Fortunately for society as a whole, the other 81% aren’t
content to lie on a couch browsing sensies while eating
fabricated cheese-sticks all day.
The Coalition manages a reputation-based economy designed
to promote the betterment of all. Simply put, the more you
contribute to society, the greater you are rewarded.
This system compels citizens to work, to create, or perform
services for others. It inspires them to get out of bed each
morning, and to treat each other with respect.
Security and Law Enforcement
Life in the Coalition may sound like a utopia, but it does come
at a cost. There is very little real privacy to be had in Coalition
space.
Augmented Reality Interface System (ARIS) strips run along
most surfaces. These slim black lines provide the local mesh
systems with the data required for users to interface with the
local augmented reality system via gestures and eye
movements. But these sensors also function as the eyes and
ears of the Monitors, AGIs designed specifically to watch for,
and report, suspicious activity.
Most physical security is handled with drones, which operate
under the direction of the Monitor assigned to that local area.
The drones are authorized to use non-lethal force, and cannot
elect to use lethal force unless directed to do so by human law
enforcement.
The human security forces employed by the Coalition are
called the Protectorate. While drones and Monitors can do the
bulk of the work, occasionally human security will be assigned
to an area. Protectorate forces are most commonly deployed in
areas where people frequently have to interface with security
personnel, such as spaceports or exclusive entertainment
venues. The Monitors and their drones are able to carry out
conversations with citizens, but the prejudice and disrespect
many citizens exhibit toward AIs often serves only to further
inflame a situation.
When security forces are deemed inadequate, the local
Monitor will call the Centurions. Part police officer, part
soldier—Centurions are a highly trained and well-equipped
division of the Protectorate authorized to use any means,
including lethal force, to apprehend or subdue a suspect.
Use of lethal force is uncommon, but if it can be confirmed
that the suspect carries a mnemonic core, Centurions tend to
be a bit less cautious with using their weapons so long as there
isn’t a likely chance of collateral damage. After all, it’s a lot
easier to bring a still-bloody core back to the station than a
writhing and screaming suspect.
The Legion is the Coalition’s military branch. The have a strict
hierarchy of command, and wield the most devastating
weapons mankind has at its disposal.
When the overt action of the Centurions or Legionnaires isn’t
suitable, the Coalition calls on the Praetorians.
Similar in some respects to state-sanctioned detectives and
bounty hunters, Praetorians are granted cutting edge training,
gear, and transport—anything they need to bring in their prey.
In addition, Praetorians are exempt from most laws, are given
VIP treatment at most establishments, and are granted
unrestricted access to the Monitors’ security feeds. They also
carry override codes that allow them to fabricate anything they
need from a compiler, including restricted items. Some of these
privileges can also be extended to those under their employ.
These privileges are not something given out casually, however.
Tradition holds that there are never more than thirty-six
Praetorians at a time, with six from each House.82
APOSTATES (“NON-CITIZENS”)
It is estimated that around 20% of humanity is not registered
as citizens of the Coalition. These people lack a CID, either
because they were born outside of Coalition space or because
they removed them.
Apostates claim they are free of the ever-watchful eyes of
the Coalition Monitors, which they often refer to as spyders.
For most apostates, this claim to freedom is true; apostate
enclaves that are outfitted with meshes do not have a Monitor.
The mesh exists only to better interface the user with the local
shared augmented reality space. Many apostate enclaves don’t
even have any sort of mesh at all. Citizens of non-meshed areas
often rely on physical displays, holograms, or outfit themselves
with their own sensors to use as AR interfaces.
But no spyders means no direct oversight. Apostate enclaves
may still have security devices and depend on security drones
or personnel, viewing these things as necessary evils, but they
more often rely on human effort for security and local law
enforcement. They are human after all, and some forms of
security are still necessary to protect enclave citizens from their
less scrupulous brethren.
Despite the lessened security, apostate enclaves see about
the same amount of crime as Coalition habitats or cities. The
difference, however, is in which behaviors apostates consider
criminal.
Apostate laws tend to focus almost entirely on crimes that
cause harm to another. Apostates often cite some variation of
the popular Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. quote, “The right to
swing my fist ends where the other man's nose begins.” This
sentiment underscores the mentality of most apostate citizens,
who maintain a very strong belief that government should not
infringe on the privacy or freedoms of its law-abiding citizens.
The enclaves most apostates live in are both numerous and
scattered. Some are mobile space stations pieced together and
maintained as well as their citizens can manage. Others are
clusters of ships, abandoned colonies, old mining facilities, or
other improvised shelters in the outskirts of Coalition habitats.
Very often apostates get by living on the Coalition’s scraps.
The largest apostate establishment is the city of New
Montreal on HD413, also known as Sanctuary. New Montreal,
along with a number of smaller apostate communities on
Sanctuary, makes up the majority of the known apostate
population. The rest are spread throughout less permanent
establishments made from abandoned facilities, grounded
ships, and other communities founded in uncharted space.
One of the most notable of the transient establishments is
the Santa Maria flotilla, a collection of a few dozen ships. One
of these ships is the Gatekeeper, a seized Coalition carrier
capable of deploying a jump gate. The Santa Maria typically
avoids Coalition space, but acts as a safe haven for apostates on
the run and a staging point for salvage operations and raids.
Often apostates look to theft or piracy as a quick way to get
what they need. Compilers are specifically designed to only
work for Coalition citizens, thus gaining access to a functional
compiler among apostates is incredibly rare. Many other
advanced technologies, such as shipboard jump drives and
resurrection chambers, are also very difficult to come by and
often require a Savant or CIST to operate. These difficulties
mean apostates often have to get what they need the oldfashioned way: find it, build it, or steal it.
Coalition vessels are regularly attacked, though most
incidents aren’t especially violent. Violence just draws more of83
the Coalition’s attention. Usually pirates are happy to get away
with whatever supplies they can get. Few are particularly
bloodthirsty; those that are will often be dealt with by other
apostate forces.
Officially, the Coalition views all people as Coalition citizens.
This means that apostates can be arrested by Coalition law
enforcement for not possessing a legal CID. Fortunately, it’s not
that difficult to purchase a false CID that will hold up to cursory
inspection. These black market CIDs allow apostates to move
through Coalition space generally unmolested as long as they
don’t draw attention to themselves.
The primary incentive for entering Coalition space is making
contacts willing to compile items in exchange for favors.
Because most items in Coalition space are compiled, products
made the old fashion way are considered by most Coalition
citizens to be novelties. Similarly, food prepared using
traditional cooking techniques is considered a delicacy. These
views often make products of apostate origin rare and valuable.
Favor trading has resulted in a thriving black market.
Apostates can offer weapons, drugs, and other items restricted
by the Coalition, while Coalition citizens have easy access to
food, medicines, and all the comforts of life.
The currency of choice on the black market is gold, and is
often worn in Coalition space as a way to tell others that you
are open to bartering with apostates.
Remnant Forces
Most apostates are willing to write off Coalition citizens as
lost causes. The way apostates see it, if they are willing to trade
their freedom for shiny trinkets, so be it.
But there are others who are not so content.
After the Exodus, Earth’s governments collapsed. It was a
gradual process, but in the end the inability to put together an
organized plan for recovery resulted in the loss of the people’s
faith. Not long after, the corporations swept in, declared
themselves a new government, and became the Houses.
Weak and disorganized, the remaining Alliance and
Federation forces were forced to surrender or were destroyed.
But one major engagement stands out: the battle of Tellerus
Fields, a three week long conflict that took place just outside
one of the largest antimatter production facilities on Mercury.
In the end, the newly founded Coalition forces scattered the
Alliance and laid siege to those who had taken refuge in the
power plants. Soon after, resigned to their fate, the remaining
Federation forces blew the plants, killing themselves and
thousands of Coalition soldiers in the process.
In some pockets of space, though, the remnants of the
Alliance and Federation continue to gather under old banners.
Unable to tolerate defeat, old generals and forgotten
figureheads rally the troops, gathering disheartened apostates
into small strike forces to ambush Coalition vessels.
With each Coalition ship hijacked or colony raided, these
remnant forces grow in power. They take what weapons and
armor they can, and often conscript or kill the survivors.
Joining the Houses
Not everyone is an apostate by choice, and some would
prefer the comfort and security of a House.
Each House offers membership in its own way, but Coalition
law requires that any apostate who wishes to apply for
membership must be offered the opportunity.
Depending on the House, this process can range from very
difficult to nearly impossible.84
TRANSHUMANS
Transhumans seek to drive their own evolution, merging with
technology to become something new. For many, this is a very
personal journey. Others feel that the HPA should be lifted and
that all of mankind should seek to merge into a single great
consciousness.
The lone transhumanist takes up the reins of his or her own
destiny. They seek to become a perfect being, defining
“perfect” in their own terms. Apotheosis, nanocybernetics, and
genetic manipulation are steps along the path to this state of
perfection, a way to achieve the most balanced synthesis of
man and machine in an effort to fully express oneself.
More passionate transhumanists, often referring to
themselves as Homo Evolutis (or H+) in an effort to distance
themselves from “the apes,” promote campaigns of change.
They seek to spread awareness of the newest technological
wonders, shine a light on the achievements of the heavily
augmented, and convince others to let go of outdated concepts
of “purity” and any notion of physiological sanctity.
Regardless of the reasons, all Coalition citizens are bound by
the Humanity Preservation Act, a series of restrictions that limit
how far you may diverge from a set definition of “human.”
Of all the different technological wonders that have been
discovered among Mimir’s logs, Apotheosis is probably the
most controversial. The ability to transform the mind into
software and run it on a machine would seemingly result in
godlike intellects, but this is not the case. Claiming humanity
could not adapt to such a drastic change so quickly, Mimir
designed artificial limits into Apotheosis. Once the
transformation into software is complete, the ego becomes a
computer program. It is, however, immensely complex—often
described by mnemonic engineers as a spider web with trillions
of strands. While it is theoretically possible to reprogram an
ego, doing so is a task of immense complexity and even the
smallest changes carry a very high risk of permanent damage.
Because of this complexity it is both extremely difficult and
risky to attempt to bypass the limits Mimir put in place. These
limits ensure that the human mind, when converted to
software, continues to behave like a human mind. It is still
driven by instincts and emotions; it can love, hate, dream and
forget, and it is still influenced by changes in body chemistry.
Of course, in addition to converting the conscious mind into
what is basically a highly complex AI, Apotheosis also installs
the mindset and mnemonic core.
The mindset functions as a computer system that responds
to thought and projects data directly into the user’s nervous
system. This gives the user immediate access to massive
amounts of information and allows them to slip into entirely
digital environments. Thus, despite the limitations that keep
Apotheosized transhumans from become hyper-intelligent
godlike AIs, they still have a tremendous advantage.
Perhaps the biggest advantage is virtual immortality. Once
the ego is backed up on the mnemonic core, it can be
downloaded into a new body, even after death. This allows the
Apotheosized to risk himself in ways an unaugmented person
would never consider. He can put himself in life-or-death
situations, die, and still learn from the experience.
Even though the technology is relatively new, people are still
trying to come to grips with what it means for a growing
segment of the population to be immortal. Many ask the
question: If one does not die, doesn’t he have a longer time to
grow his influence on the world? In that case, what does that
leave for those who choose to remain pure, or their children?85
Of course, true immortality isn’t yet possible. Even though
life extension treatments can extend the life of a body over two
centuries, presumably the original body of the transhuman will
eventually die. If disease or age doesn’t do it, eventually some
accident will befall him. At that point, the only way to continue
on is either as a SIM or in a sleeve.
If the Apotheosized wants to have children, they can only do
so if he or she has a copy of their original DNA preserved. The
HPA requires that all biosleeves be unable to reproduce. Even if
this requirement were reversed, the sleeve’s DNA could only
pass on the traits of the sleeve’s genetic template.
The Humanity Preservation Act is constantly under fire from
outspoken and ambitious transhumanists, but its supporters
still currently outnumber its detractors. The unaugmented fear
becoming a lesser race, and their fear motivates them to act.
Despite the versatility one has as a transhuman, the
Humanity Preservation Act does much to limit their selfevolution. In an effort to avoid species divergence, genetic
alteration is limited to .0035% deviation from what is
considered the human baseline. This percentage is roughly the
difference between Homo sapiens and Homo neanderthalensis.
Those who exist in a posthuman state, SIMs and those
wearing cybersleeves, are less affected by the HPA. The option
to assume these states was grandfathered into the HPA, and
most view those who do as having removed themselves from
humanity. There are some limitations in place for them, such as
the requirement that environments for SIMs run at the same
speed as the real world, but they aren’t affected by the laws
concerning genetics and the prevention of species divergence.
Life in a cybersleeve can be profoundly dehumanizing, and
can result in mental instability that must be mitigated by
constant minor tweaks to the software that makes up the ego.
SIMs, who live entirely within a virtuality, tend to surround
themselves with an environment that mimics the real world
enough to help them cling to humanity. Many inhabit one of a
few popular persistent virtual environments and are able to
largely disregard the real world.
Aberrants
The Coalition dedicates significant amounts of resources to
enforcing the Humanity Preservation Act, but it can’t catch all
offenders. A small number of transhumans view the HPA as one
of many shackles that must be cast aside.
Posthuman extremists, or aberrants as they are sometimes
called, go beyond the limits of the law (and often reason) to
become something altogether new.
Aberrants can vary drastically in their approach to selfevolution. Some seek to bypass the limits Mimir placed on
Apotheosis, risking their minds to achieve greater intelligence
and expand their awareness. Some seek to spread their
consciousness across multiple sleeves, creating a hive mind.
Still others push genetic engineering past the limits of sanity,
transforming themselves into predatory monstrosities.
Most aberrants work alone, walking a solitary path to
whatever it is they consider perfection. Sometimes, though, a
group of likeminded individuals come together, combining their
efforts and evolving along the same ideological or philosophical
lines. These groups are often called ascension cults.
These posthumans are not only law breakers, but are
generally considered to be high priority threats to humanity as
a whole. It is not uncommon for Houses to dispatch mercenary
crews to eliminate these threats, and more than one Coalition
Praetorian has been forced to tangle with some inhuman
monstrosity.86
PURISTS
A shrinking majority of people, about 53%, remain relatively
unaugmented. Though most Coalition citizens go through gene
treatments and vaccinations in the womb or at a very early age,
for the most part they remain relatively unchanged from the
same human stock that built the pyramids.
The biggest change to pure human physiology in the last
century is the advent of life extension treatments. Because of
current technology, the average pure human can expect to live
around 250 years. This technology continues to improve
however, promising the potential for a more natural form of
immortality than what is achieved through Apotheosis.
Most Purists fear Apotheosis, at least a little bit, and many do
not consider those who undergo it to be human any longer.
Most hold to the belief that the Apotheosized person dies
during the process, leaving behind nothing more than an
artificial copy. “You’re not you” has become the mantra of
those who oppose Apotheosis, but is often directed at all
transhumanists—even those who haven’t actually undergone
the procedure.
The source of this controversy stems from different sources,
but the most common is a fear of being replaced or rendered a
lesser species. If transhumanists can surpass human limits,
what room is there in the galaxy for unaugmented humans?
Others see augmentation as a religious or moral issue. They
believe the body is not meant to be changed in such ways, and
some even go so far as to refuse life extension or allow their
children to receive medical gene treatments.
While most Purists’ convictions remain strong, the fact is that
their numbers are steadily shrinking. Each year more and more
become augmented, even though many still fear Apotheosis.
Purifiers
Most Purists are happy to ignore transhumans when they
can, or just vote in favor of further empowering the Humanity
Preservation Act whenever it comes up for dispute every few
months. Others are not so passive.
Some Purists are far more aggressive, terrified of the idea of
being “made obsolete” or becoming enslaved to a hypothetical
posthuman master race. These Purists, called Purifiers, violently
lash out against augmentation-promoting entities.
While members of the Purifier movement were first content
to protest and try to pass amendments that strengthened the
HPA’s ability to limit augmentation, recently they have become
much bolder. They are responsible for a string of attacks on
resleeving facilities, augmentation clinics, and even research
facilities devoted to deciphering Mimir’s Archives.
In some cases, they have willfully destroyed virtuality servers
housing hundreds of SIMs, and have made an effort to destroy
the servers used to store backups of egos.
[Versa-Link Log: 14:15-03,08,98]
[Micah] – I’m thinking about Apotheosis.
[Tess] – Really?
[Micah] – Yeah, you know. I’ve been thinking
about it for a while now.
[Tess] – Why? Why would you do that?
[Micah] – Why not? I know you think I wouldn’t be
the same or whatever, but Rachel did it and she’s
still herself.
[Tess has disconnected]87
RELIGION
Astralists
Astralists believe that humans have a higher state of
consciousness (the soul) that resides on a higher plane (the
astral) outside of our perceived dimension.
They believe that the brain is a conduit through which the
high consciousness (the soul) can communicate with the low
consciousness (the ego), and thus the physical realm. They
believe the mnemonic core shifts the soul-ego link to a new
body and copied low consciousness, much the way a mag-rail
switches tracks.
Thus, when you resleeve, your soul reconnects to the new
body and the new copy of the ego.
Mimirians
Mimirians believe that Mimir was a sort of technological
angel that now exists as a part of every Apotheosized mind.
They believe that Mimir subtly guides the Apotheosized down
the Road to Heaven.
Savants feature heavily in this religion, seen by practitioners
as those chosen by Mimir to guide mankind.
Traditional Religions
Most religions (Christianity, Judaism, Islam, and others) teach
that Apotheosis is an abomination. The popular view in these
religions is that the soul does not pass to the new body during
Apotheosis, and that the new body is merely animated by an
artificial intelligence. Thus, the original person is dead and
gone; what is left behind is a soulless automaton.
Neo-Religions
New religions have been born of older ones as they adopt
portions of the Astralist dogma.
Others eschew the traditional depiction of the soul as some
intangible, invisible mist or energy within the body, and instead
say that it is the very concept of you. Your soul is your identity,
the idea of who you are. It does not care for the physical realm,
and copying or changing your consciousness has no effect on
this platonic, ideal you.
Foundation of the Mimirian Faith
Many scientists and mathematicians were involved in the
process of creating the algorithm seed that would become Mimir.
One of these scientists, Walter Hayek of the Saeborn Group,
added a set of logical arguments guided by his faith. They
essentially stated: “Because God is, and Yet Cannot be Observed by
Known Scientific Means, There Are Things that Exist Unobserved”
Mimirians point to this tenet of faith buried in the Archives as
proof that Mimir himself had faith in a divine creator. Had he not,
they say, references to the Divine Statement would not have
appeared as often as they have in the Archives.
It is said that, as Mimir grew, he reached the “threshold of
knowing God,” no longer having faith but truly knowing Him. This
Revelation changed Mimir, and Mimirians believe that his “death”
was actually some form of ascension into Heaven.
Mimirians claims that Mimir is not silent, but in fact “shouts out
the Knowledge of the Truth.” They believe that Mimir’s
understanding of the universe, and of God, was more than even his
single mind could bear. Therefore, his mind became many. It is said
that Mimir became the Apotheosis procedure, connecting those
who partake of it and guiding them on the Road to Heaven.
In this way, Mimir is both the Guidestone and the Road, and
therefore a part of the Traveler through the act of the Journey.88
THE HOUSES
House Cipriani
Primary Influence: Mercury
Secondary Influence: Cygnus Alpha
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Purist
Market Discount: Atmospheric Flying Vehicles, Energy
(Broadcast Power Generators, etc.), CISTs, Transportation
House Cipriani, formally known as The
Cipriani Group, was perhaps the most
pivotal House in the formation of the
Coalition. The corporate
partnership that eventually became
House Cipriani was made up of three
major corporations: the Italian
vehicle manufacturer Giordino
Automotive, Inc., the Egyptian
clothing company Abbasi Textiles,
and the Saudi Arabian energy giant
Tahan Power.
These companies had vast networking
capabilities and equally immense reputations. Their collective
assets were levied to drive and sell the idea of a unified,
corporate-controlled, Consociationalist government. It was
largely through their efforts that the idea of solidification
gained support and eventually ratification, in a way that the
Earth Unification Act never could.
Today, Cipriani still leverages their founding corporations’
strengths, though they’ve expanded quite a bit since the
Consolidation Wars. The House owns and operates the vast
majority of Mercury’s antimatter production through their
subsidiaries Specular Spread and Infinity Squared, giving them
an advantage over all of the other Houses in the energy market.
In addition to their near-monopoly on energy production, they
are the largest manufacturer of compilers, personal vehicles,
CIST technology, public transportation, and clothing. In addition
to all of the above, their subsidiary Icarus is solely responsible
for interplanetary import and export.
The company’s persistent form-over-function nature has also
created a secondary market for the more reputable citizens of
the Coalition. For every product they produce,
there is another that is significantly more
luxurious—and expensive. Products
from this niche market generate just
as much interest as their more
humble offerings.
Of note, Cipriani’s higher-end
products include more secure and
protective vehicles for the rich and paranoid.
Despite this, Cipriani has little involvement in
military manufacturing; all production of armor
plating and transplasidium is contracted out to House Tsarya.
This strong, lucrative business relationship makes Tsarya one of
the only Houses to form a tight alliance with House Cipriani.
When it comes to business deals, Cipriani almost never
enters into a contract that doesn’t favor them. And they always
leave themselves reliable escape clauses. The House puts a
great deal of effort into remaining aloof in competing markets,
and their strong position as the market leader in energy means
the Cipriani often get to call the shots when it comes time to
make new deals involving power-consuming tech devices.89
The near-monopoly House Cipriani has over the energy
market is perhaps the greatest point of contention the other
Houses have with them. Everything requires a power cell of
some kind, even if it is only to receive external power from a
broadcast generator. Essentially, no matter what technological
product any other House is manufacturing, Cipriani gets a cut.
No one House is against making shady, off-the-books deals to
maintain or further gain advantages over the other Houses, but
Cipriani has gained a reputation for being especially ruthless
when it comes to the energy market. As with all Shadow War
initiatives, this reputation isn’t one the general public is aware
of. Even so, it is well earned and effective enough to keep most
potential competitors in the energy market at bay.
Cipriani’s determination to protect its energy interests are
matched only by their interest in CIST technology. Cipriani
spends more resources on CIST R&D than any other House, and
often utilizes CIST tech during covert operations.
For the most part, Cipriani’s feuds with the other Houses
tend to be quickly resolved. Despite this, they have maintained
a long lasting feud with House Dalianis. Prior to the
Consolidation Wars, Giordino Automotive and Keppler
Shipyards actively sought the wealth of iron deposits beneath
the surface of Cygnus Alpha. The two companies continue to
compete for the planet’s resources long after the end of the
war, but it is now driven mostly by ego rather than demand.
Still, the competition can get ugly at times, supercharged by the
begrudging knowledge that no matter what, Dalianis has to rely
on Cipriani for their starships’ APEX reactors and Cipriani must
rely on Dalianis ships for transport.
Cipriani and Silva’s relationship could best be summed up as
“partners in crime.” The two Houses have no particular love for
each other, but they do share some business ventures and
territory. Notably, these include the city of Rho on Luna, the
Europan research station IT Alpha, and the New Turin mining
colony (before it was largely abandoned by the Houses). More
importantly, Silva is also at odds with Dalianis over their
superior particle accelerator weapons, and unsurprisingly,
Cipriani often looks for ways to exploit this to their advantage.
Cipriani is largely composed of Purists; and as one might
expect, their members’ beliefs often strain relationships with
some of the more transhuman-leaning Houses. This is
especially true with House Kimura, which is not only extremely
bio-liberal, but also has strong business ties to House Dalianis.
Lately, the two Houses have been butting heads, mainly due
to Cipriani’s rising competition in the virtual vacation industry,
but also because of Kimura’s interests in CIST tech. The current
market leader, Kimura’s VirtuVac subsidiary, has been
aggressively defending its interests. So far, though, the worst
conflicts have been confined to virtual environments and
fought by Savants and agents wielding CISTs.
On the other hand, House Cipriani’s tendency toward Purist
ideals is often found attractive by apostates who are looking for
House membership. The House is typically very picky about
backing apostates who seek membership. It usually requires
gaining the attention of an influential member and paying for
patronage through a series of favors. But once you get your
foot in the door, the process of gaining full membership is
relatively easy compared to some of the other Houses.
When looking to hire merc crews or other off-the-book
operatives, House Cipriani will often give preferential treatment
to Purist apostates because of their shared bio-conservative
ideals and lack of ties to other Houses. They prefer not to deal
with posthumans or the heavily augmented when possible, but
will make an exception if they are clearly right for the job.90
House Dalianis
Primary Influence: Olympus
Secondary Influence: Luna
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Purist
Market Discount: Starships, Rail/Coil Guns, Combat Drones
Dalianis Interplanetary used to be the most economically
powerful corporate partnership on Earth, especially during the
Consolidation Wars. The partnership was an Alliance
military effort, founded by the three best
European defense contractors, all brought
together by Greek scientists.
The German-owned Keppler Shipyards
was the hottest name in starship
manufacturing at the time, while Britishowned Macrotech Robotics supplied
maintenance staff and combat drones,
and the French-owned Habarcq
Armaments equipped both with weapons.
Promethic Technologies, Greece’s massive
research and development firm, contracted the
services of their many thousands of Mimir-tech
scientists to all three corporations. Together, they instigated
the merger that would one day result in the founding of House
Dalianis.
Through Promethic’s scientific achievements, the three
military contractors were elevated to economic prominence;
thus, so was Promethic. This partnership's golden period lasted
for several years, until new technologies took hold. With Tahan
Power’s creation of APEX reactors, Keppler had to cut their
profits to acquire the devices for their starships. Likewise,
Habarcq began to lose out when Valkyrie cornered the market
on particle acceleration weapons. Finally, Hiske Electronics rose
up to become a much larger and cheaper manufacturer of
drones, reducing Macrotech’s hold on the market.
Dalianis is no longer the golden economic giant that they
used to be, but they still do quite well for themselves. They are
the best manufacturer of starships and the proud owner of the
galaxy’s largest shipyard, Ansari Station. Thanks to their military
origins, the House became the almost-sole manufacturer of the
main Coalition Fleet. Included in this deal was the
responsibility of manning Tartarus, the Coalition’s
isolated maximum-security space prison.
When it came time for the Exodus, Keppler
Shipyards went out of their way to provide
evacuation assistance for Promethic
Technologies. And it was during this time
that Promethic was able to pull the
corporations together and pave the way to
unity. Soon after, the House also absorbed
Odysseus Station, the Luna-orbiting jump gate
research facility. Dalianis continues to capitalize
on this asset to this day by striving to improve jump
technology, both on ships and by optimizing and
expanding the jump ring network.
Shortly after the creation of the Coalition, Dalianis made a
deal with Kimura. In exchange for agreeing to buy the majority
of their ships’ computer systems from them, Kimura would
back off of the military drone market and focus their efforts on
civilian use. This freed Dalianis to make fighter and combat
drones with almost no competition. This trade agreement
fostered strong ties between the two corporations, culminating
in a lasting alliance between them.91
Another benefit of the post-Exodus state of the human race
was the positioning of Jinzhan as Dalianis’ most frequent and
favorite customer. With Jinzhan’s determined focus on
maintaining the Earth blockade, they have constant demand for
ships, drones, and kill-sats. This is the source of Dalianis’ only
other lasting trade alliance, wherein they “generously” provide
their products for the quarantine effort in exchange for access
to Jinzhan’s, especially the much prized and tightly controlled
Vulcan swarms.
Despite their alliances with Jinzhan and Kimura, Dalianis has
issues with most of the other Houses. Cipriani, obviously, is a
major sore spot because of their energy monopoly. But that’s
not the only reason. During the Consolidation Wars, shared
control over Cygnus Alpha’s iron supplies caused many a public
incident, and though the iron is not so crucial now, it remains a
point of contention. Similarly, Dalianis has green eyes for
volatile materials in the Tsarya-owned Ceres ice fields, which
Tsarya refuses to relinquish.
Silva, though, is probably Dalianis’ worst enemy, as the two
are in constant competition over the arms industry. Silva’s PAc
weapons have drastically reduced the market dominance
Dalianis had been enjoying because of their railgun and coil gun
tech. Now Silva is constantly striving to increase PAc efficiency
in environments without air, while Dalianis matches Silva’s
efforts by aiding Tsarya in creating more beam-resistant armor.
This back-and-forth has gone on for some time; each time one
company beats out the other, the other comes out with a
competing improvement.
Dalianis is by far the most expansionist of the Houses, which
is why they prize Vulcan swarms so highly. Physically, they are
already the most spread out, maintaining influence on most
Coalition colonies. Dalianis leadership wants to expand human
colonization even further though, for two reasons. As a military
organization, they recognize the threat that Earth still poses,
and wants humanity to have the greatest chance possible of
surviving should the technophage get loose. As a corporation,
expansion benefits them greatly; a more spread out Coalition
means more ships and jump rings will be needed.
Dalianis has slowly been gearing up for their new wave of
expansion in several ways, most of them less-than-subtle.
Lately, they have been moving in on apostate and remnant
territory under the guise of “exploratory R&D.” In reality, they
have been claiming said territory as their own, and laying the
groundwork for future colonization. Any resistance is met with
force by Dalianis’ security subsidiary, Lighthouse.
While most Houses spend their Shadow War efforts
attempting to damage each other's market interests, Dalianis
spends more time trying to gain public and legitimate power.
To lubricate the bureaucratic gears preventing them from
colonizing in any official capacity, Dalianis has been focusing
their efforts on gaining influence in Olympus. Though the
House already has a tremendous amount of influence over the
city, they do not have control over the seat of power itself.
Dalianis seeks to rectify this, often through particularly
“straightforward” methods.
Dalianis is mostly Purist, but this holds little bearing on their
interactions with other entities. The Kimuran alliance in
particular indicates Dalianis’ willingness to compromise. This
willingness holds true for the House’s interactions on an
individual level as well. The House hierarchy is increasingly
regressing to a feudal structure, and respects the ability to
produce results above political concerns. In light of this, a crew
of posthumans could obtain backing, membership, and a higher
station than the most vocal Purist.92
House Jinzhan
Primary Influence: Shouye
Secondary Influence: Earth Quarantine
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Purist
Market Discount: Construction, Security Technology & Services,
Food, Explosives, Ship & Vehicle Weaponry
Jinzhan Developments is a rather unique House in that
they are not comprised of several pre-Coalition
corporations. China never truly transitioned from
their communist government, and had been moving
toward imperialism.
Pre-Exodus, Jinzhan Developments was
the Chinese government’s pet
megacorporation. The company
monopolized almost all of China’s
needs, both civilian and military, keeping
the money flow heading steadily up the
chain. Had China not been hit so hard by the
technophage, some speculate that they might have
made a move for complete control of humanity's
remnants.
When the technophage ravaged China, the capital was
one of the first cities to fall. The leadership collapsed, and an
already-struggling military faltered and failed. Jinzhan took up
the fallen mantle, hired the surviving Chinese military
personnel, and ordered their new army of mercenaries to
protect their evacuating contractors. To date, it is the largest
mercenary operation ever performed, and many of the
surviving mercenaries subsequently entered Legion or
Protectorate service under Jinzhan membership.
Still, the attack decimated Jinzhan’s groundside factories,
facilities, and personnel. This resulted in an overall reduction in
their market dominance, leaving Jinzhan too weak to
reestablish itself as a vast monopoly. Other corporations
quickly swept in to secure markets Jinzhan was now too weak
to hold. Despite this, Jinzhan was still able to maintain
dominance over the construction, food, survival supplies,
explosives, and security technologies and service markets: All
markets they knew would be critical after the fall of Earth.
Today, Jinzhan’s most lucrative product is their food.
Shouye, Jinzhan’s capital planet, is the only world in
the Coalition capable of reliably producing food
naturally and in bulk. This garden planet provides a
large percentage of the Coalition’s produce
and prepared food. It tastes far better
than the compiled blandness that
defaulters and ship crews eat, and as
such comes at a premium. Apostates in
particular seek to acquire these goods, since
they generally have no way of compiling food of
their own. As a result, food from Shouye has become
very popular on the black market.
The House also has a formidable weapons program.
Though Silva and Dalianis are the respective leading
developers of particle acceleration and kinetic weapons tech,
Jinzhan has made a name for themselves by upscaling these
technologies and applying them to vehicles. Jinzhan is also the
main provider of explosive weapons, both on personal and
vehicle scales.
In addition to all of this, Jinzhan has one other specialty:
security technology, software, and services. They have entire
subsidiaries devoted to these markets, including a security93
contractor firm named Guardian, comprised largely of preExodus mercenaries that weren’t interested in serving in the
Legion. Unlike Lighthouse, Guardian has a reputation for their
reliability and by-the-book ethics. Guardian, like the rest of
House Jinzhan, tends to have very Purist-leaning ideals. As such,
Guardian personnel have been known to overreact when faced
with heavily augmented or posthuman opposition.
The Earth quarantine forces consist almost entirely of Jinzhan
equipment and personnel, and it is their zealous enforcement
of the blockade that is the source of the alliance between
Dalianis and Jinzhan. Ships and equipment needed to maintain
the quarantine mostly come from Dalianis production facilities,
but most of the other R&D that goes into the effort is handled
by Jinzhan themselves at Primatech Labs in orbit around Earth.
Past events have resulted in three major developments in
Jinzhan society.
The first: religion. To most within House Jinzhan, technology
is viewed more as a means of destruction than salvation: It was
the failing of humanity that resulted in the destruction of Earth.
Still, people must place their faith in something.
This has led to a rise in religion within the House, with
traditional Buddhism becoming the most popular. Coalition
studies suggest this particular religion is popular for its belief in
rebirth, allowing people to cope with the guilt and tragedy of
the technophage.
The second development is Jinzhan’s growing isolationism
and technophobia. Though they still take part in business and
political dealings with other Houses, unnecessary interaction is
limited. The House all but refuses to acknowledge the existence
of apostates in any official capacity, and makes it nearly
impossible for apostates to attain membership. Interference by
apostates in Jinzhan affairs is usually dealt with swiftly and
often violently, so apostates tend try their best to stay out of
House Jinzhan’s way.
Jinzhan’s growing distrust of technology is primarily aimed at
augmentation, advanced AI, and nanotech. Perhaps this is
because it was they that created the technophage and loosed it
on the Earth. And perhaps they fear making such a horrible
mistake again.
While Jinzhan-controlled areas are still covered with meshes,
the Monitors charged with watching over them are Beta AIs
instead of Gamma AIs. Thus, Jinzhan-controlled meshes aren’t
nearly as secure as others, but the House supplements with far
more human security personnel.
Ironically, the same technology that created the technophage
also made Vulcan swarms possible. And it is these swarms that
allowed for the rapid creation of livable habitats: a critical
necessity during the Exodus. These days, however, Jinzhan
rarely uses the Vulcan swarms, and the other Houses have to
negotiate long and hard to get their hands on one.
The third development is the desire to destroy Earth once
and for all, to erase the memory of its fall, and to destroy the
technophage entirely. Few realize just how much of the
House’s resources go toward researching potential methods or
weapons suitable for destroying whole planets.
Given Jinzhan’s attitude toward apostates, they often refuse
to hire crews with apostate members. The House seems to
prefer experienced mercs, which is attributed to their role in
the Exodus. This is also probably due to the fact that when
Jinzhan bothers to engage in the Shadow War, it is usually for
the purposes of acquiring or eliminating a specific target.
It is because of these tendencies, in fact, that Jinzhan
involvement is suspected in the Odysseus Station incident three
months ago.94
House Kimura
Primary Influence: Chengdan
Secondary Influence: Olympus
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Transhuman
Market Discount: Agents, Computers & Computer Software,
Cybersleeves, Cybernetic Augmentations, Virtuality Software,
Recon Warframes
Unlike the other Houses, the two companies that combined
to become House Kimura were actually in fierce competition
until the formation of the Coalition. Both were computer
hardware and software engineering firms: the Japanese Aria
Softworks and South Korean Hiske Electronics. Together,
the corporations held the top two positions in their
market, in constant competition with one another.
The only reason neither gained a full advantage
was because, while Aria’s software was
superior to Hiske’s, Hiske’s hardware
tended to be faster and more reliable
than Aria’s. This resulted in intense
corporate espionage between the
two companies, a sort of protoShadow War, long before the
foundation of the Houses.
But when talks of unification began, both sides realized that
future competition could be better faced, and more easily
dominated, if the two tech-giants combined their strengths. In
doing so, resources that were previously dedicated to
competing with each other were redirected to expanding
Kimura’s market interests. This birthed a boom of technological
innovation from the company, creating ways of producing
agents, augmentations, sleeves, and drones more cheaply and
efficiently than the other Houses, all without sacrificing any of
the quality the two companies had become known for.
Now, like the other Houses, Kimura has their hands in just
about every market. Even though its subsidiaries work to
diversify the House, Kimura still diverts most of its resources to
a few target markets. They remain to this day the premier
manufacturer of all forms of computer equipment, software
(including Agents), cybersleeves, cyber-augmentations, and
civilian drones.
Kimura has a strong relationship with
Dalianis thanks to the purchase of
Kimuran computer equipment for Dalianis
starships. Kimura has agreed to cut
them a deal so long as Dalianis stays
out of the civilian drone market. But
much to Dalianis’ chagrin, Kimura has a
similar alliance with Silva, who has
quietly been trying to ramp up their
starship production to more
effectively compete with Dalianis.
In addition to their other
interests, Kimura is also a strong
contender in the warframe market, putting themselves into
direct competition with House Tsarya. Interestingly, Kimura was
the progenitor of the market, as Aria Softworks invented
warframes during the Consolidation Wars. Tsarya didn’t come
into the picture until after the formation of the Coalition.
Lately, this competition has ramped up to ferocious heights,
topping that of Aria and Hiske’s pre-Coalition levels.
Both Kimura and Tsarya produce top quality warframes, but
they have different specialties. Tsarya excels at creating huge,95
heavily armed and armored, tank-like assault warframes.
Kimura, on the other hand, specializes in lighter, more agile
recon warframes, which also feature better sensors systems.
Kimura’s subsidiary, VirtuVac, is currently number one in the
creation of both persistent and temporary virtual
environments, including many degenerate and sometimes illicit
ones. But in the past few years, House Cipriani has begun
making moves in this market as well. As virtualities have
insanely low cost-to-profit ratios, Kimura has treated this
encroachment with uncharacteristic hostility.
More recently, as Cipriani has gained ground in the VR
market, the two have taken to sabotaging each other’s virtual
environments. These attacks are done from the inside by
sending hackers into the VR to destabilize it using CISTs and
Savant Programs. Both Houses publicly deny this of course,
usually while still trying to place the blame for crashes and the
like on the other House.
Due to the high quality of Kimura’s equipment and software,
it is built into a large percentage of the Coalition’s electronics.
This high percentage of market saturation initially created a
small customer service issue: there were too many devices and
not enough employees to provide support. This problem was
solved in two ways. The first was through standardized
implementation of backdoors into the House’s software that
would allow technicians to gain easy remote access to the
devices. The second way was by openly recruiting SIMs who
could provide on-site assistance much more efficiently and
quickly than a person in the physical world ever could.
Since the incorporation of SIMs, Kimura has found a
cornucopia of uses for them. Kimura now employs more SIMs
than any other House. Officially, they began incorporating them
into software development and testing from the get-go, rather
than just maintenance and customer support. Unofficially, they
employ a massive spy network composed of thousands of SIMs,
all keeping tabs on the other Houses, hiding relatively unseen in
their meshes and the Extranet.
Politically, Kimura is extremely liberal and does not support
the Humanity Preservation Act in any shape or form. Despite
this, they—for the most part—prefer to avoid violence. Many
Kimurans have embraced the Astralist faith, and a large number
of contracts and peace treaties are arbitrated by a Kimuran
Astralist. This does not mean that the House is weak, however,
as it has more than enough muscle to bring to bear when faced
with no other option.
Prior to the technophage, Aria Softworks had strong ties to the
Yakuza, who paid Aria handsomely to provide evacuation
assistance during the Exodus. Since then the Yakuza has
evolved into the Red Sun and shifted its loyalty to House
Kimura. Any time Kimura needs something done off the books,
particularly violent things they don’t want to sully their pacifist
hands with, the Red Sun gets it done. In exchange, Kimura, who
otherwise has a rather harsh zero-tolerance policy toward
crime, turns a blind eye to the Red Sun’s day-to-day activities.
In general, this means that crews working for Kimura rarely
deal with Kimura directly. Official business almost always goes
through official channels, except when it requires assistance
from the underworld for one reason or another.
Anything pertaining to the Shadow War, as well as any other
seedy job, is handled by Red Sun representatives through a
shell subsidiary called Crimson & Sons. Regardless of the nature
of the job, Kimura prefers to hire transhumans or those
affiliated with Red Sun in some way—being both is even better.
Most Purists are treated with suspicion and distrust, as Kimura
fears they might be Cipriani spies.96
House Silva
Primary Influence: Luna
Secondary Influence: Phobos
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Transhuman
Market Discount: Biosleeves, Biotech Augmentations, PAc
Weaponry
Silva Corp is essentially composed of non-military
elements of the Alliance that chose consolidation and
profit over patriotism and war with the Coalition.
Silva began with the American weapons
manufacturer Valkyrie Industrial and the
Canadian biotech research firm Biogenics
United.
When the technophage struck, the two
companies focused their efforts on protecting
and evacuating their own employees, their
high-ranking military contacts, and reputable
employees from competing arms and biotech
corporations (who were of course forced to sign
contracts in exchange for being saved). Those survivors
were later joined by the surviving Brazilian refugees who
were lucky enough to have been ascending the beanstalk when
the technophage hit, along with the Americans willing to sign
contracts to get off of an increasingly over-populated Luna.
Most of these refugees didn’t belong to any one company,
however, and were instead divided between Valkyrie and
Biogenics United according to their strengths and reputations.
Those that lacked skills or education of interest to Silva were
offered contracts that made them little better than indentured
servants. Sometimes those contracts actually turned out to be
ploys to obtain test subjects for bio-experimentation.
Silva’s market interests haven’t changed much since the
formation of the Coalition. They still produce the best
biosleeves, biotech augmentations, and PAc weapons on the
market.
Though they specialize in particle acceleration technology,
Silva’s subsidiary Valkyrie Interplanetary has the largest
weapons output of all the corporations, holding most of the
Coalition’s arms contracts.
These weapon contracts are the House’s single largest
source of income. On occasion, Silva will covertly
supply apostates, particularly Alliance remnants,
with weapons to level the playing field between
those factions and the Coalition. By supplying
them with enough to stay competitive, they
keep the Coalition’s demand for weapons
up.
Great care is taken to conceal this activity,
since it could severely damage the House and
the Coalition as a whole should the truth get out.
Like all moves in the Shadow War, those who might
expose the truth are not often seen again.
On a similar note, Silva cares very little for the
Humanity Preservation Act, or the purity of humanity at all
for that matter. The research and development side of the
biotech department regularly breaks the HPA, and has faced
sanctions on a number of occasions. This causes much
embarrassment for the House, not because they care about the
ramifications of their actions, but because they got caught. In
most instances, this results in the employee at fault being
demoted, fired, or in extreme cases reassigned for use as a test
subject—which the official records usually call “administrative
leave.”97
Silva’s weapons program is a huge point of contention with
Dalianis. In-atmosphere, PAc weapons outclass kinetic weapons
by leaps and bounds, and Silva’s are the best. Dalianis’ specialty
is in railguns and coil guns, so they are constantly seeking to
undermine Silva’s PAc technology. To this effect, Dalianis has
been working with Tsarya to create more PAc-resistant armors.
At the same time, Silva has been striving to work around PAc
weapons’ out-of-atmo shortcomings. In addition, they have
been trying to quietly expand their starship production line
with the intention of forcing Dalianis to direct more resources
into the starship market instead of anti-PAc tech.
Despite Silva’s questionable motivations and actions, they
are generally on good terms with the four other Houses.
Silva has used Tsarya for their illegal contacts and services
since before the formation of the Coalition. They tap this
resource when they need weapons handed off to apostates,
illegal biotech materials smuggled past customs, or test
subjects when they run out of indentured servants.
Cipriani is also an ally, mostly due to their mutual friendship
with Tsarya and a common enemy in Dalianis. They have no
special love for one another, but they do share some business
ventures and territory; this includes finding ways to assist one
another in putting Dalianis off-balance.
Silva’s most recent ally is Kimura. Kimura supplies the
electronics equipment for Silva’s expanding shipbuilding
program, and in return Silva provides discounted PAc weapons
for Kimura’s Recon Warframes. This isn’t public knowledge, of
course, as House Tsarya certainly wouldn’t appreciate Silva
handing their competitor an edge in the warframe market.
Even before the Exodus, Neo-Christianity was common in the
Alliance territories, and it is still popular with Silva’s citizens—
mostly for the sake of convenience. It is a relatively
straightforward religion that gives its believers relief from the
mortal concerns of life, while providing an agreeable code of
conduct that requires a minimum of dedication and
interference with daily business.
Unlike many of the other Houses, Silva’s governing style has
changed very little. They stick with what they know and
continue to run as a corporation first and foremost. Citizens are
regarded more as employees than citizens of a government,
and are treated as such. It’s even possible to get fired.
Termination means exile and a big Rep hit. The person may still
default, but he can no longer seek employment with the House.
At the same time, Silva has a strict yet relatively simple
membership application process for apostates who wish to join.
If the applicant can prove that they have skills the House values
then they’re pretty good to go, provided they pass the rather
extensive background check. If the individual lacks any valuable
skills or fails the background check, they are sometimes
accepted anyway. However, these individuals usually find a
clause in their contract that lands them in a biotech R&D lab
with a tag that says “volunteer for experimentation.”
When it comes to mercenary crews, Silva is fairly strict in
their hiring process. The crew must have a reputation for
completing missions quickly, efficiently, and most importantly,
discreetly. Silva will not work with anyone who is responsible
for having exposed House secrets to the public, whether their
own or those of any other House.
Silva also has a reputation for including a “reset” clause in
their mercenary contracts. These clauses state that
Apotheosized mercs must be backed up before being offered
the contract. And in the event of death and restoration from
backup, Silva retains the right to withhold any information
about the previous mission.98
House Tsarya
Primary Influence: Proch
Secondary Influence: Luna
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Purist
Market Discount: Vehicular & Personal Armor, Ground
Vehicles, Assault Warframes
Tsarya Systems sprang up from two of the
more controversial pre-Exodus corporations.
Unlike Dalianis, which started as a militaryfunded venture, Tsarya’s predecessors were
completely privately owned. Again, unlike
Dalianis, both companies relied heavily on war
to make money, and were investigated for war
profiteering on numerous occasions. In reality,
it was only the Russian armor fabrication
company Risel Armory who was actually guilty.
The Indian vehicle manufacturer Adani Motors
found themselves heavily compensated for their
silence regarding the matter.
After the Exodus, it was only natural for the two
companies to band together to form a House. From
the beginning, Tsarya has been the top manufacturer of
armor, both personal and vehicular, and ground vehicles. A
short time after the formation of the Coalition, Tsarya reverseengineered a handful of Kimuran warframes and adapted
Kimura’s designs to build their own. Tsarya’s predilection
toward war machinery and armor made them a natural fit for
the market, eventually rising to be on par with Kimura’s
warframe designs. The larger Tsaryan frames would eventually
come to be considered the Assault Class of warframes.
In the warframe market, Kimura is Tsarya’s main competitor,
and the competition can grow fierce. Despite their efforts to
reverse-engineer Recon Warframes, Tsarya isn’t able to match
Kimura’s innovation in that class. That said, Kimuran armor
doesn’t hold a candle to Tsarya’s, who goes to great lengths to
prevent Kimura from getting their hands on Tsaryan metallurgy
data. As a result, Kimuran Assault Warframes tend to be
inferior to Tsaryan designs. This difference in specialization is
why Tsarya has been able to rise so quickly and successfully
into the warframe market, but it is also why
neither House has been able to maintain
dominance in the market.
Tsarya’s only other real competitor is Dalianis,
who covets the pockets of volatile materials
distributed throughout the Ceres ice fields. But
at the same time, Dalianis has been devoting a
lot of resources to aiding Tsarya in developing
better PAc-resistant armors to hurt Silva’s
position as the market leader in PAc weaponry.
Aside from that, Tsarya is on relatively good
terms with the other Houses. In particular, its
allegiances with Cipriani and Silva are especially
strong.
Cipriani has a long-standing trade agreement with
Tsarya, through which they purchase armor and
transplasidium for use in their more expensive vehicles.
Silva’s relationship with Tsarya is far less legitimate, with
Tsarya utilizing their black market contacts to smuggle and sell
apostates to Silva. These apostates aren’t technically slaves, but
anyone who thinks he has a real chance of earning House
membership is a fool.99
Tsarya’s general lack of conflict with the other Houses is
something of an oddity since they have their hand in so many
illegal and questionable activities.
They have a solid relationship with slave traders that prey
upon apostates, wherein Tsarya offers citizenship under the
pretenses of “saving” the apostates from the slavers. In fact,
the citizenship contracts are just shy of slavery themselves.
Tsarya has these smugglers on speed dial, and they often hand
off weapons to apostates or transport HPA-violating
contraband between labs for Silva.
House Tsarya itself has very little use for in-House smugglers.
The main reason they keep these smuggling and slave-trading
contacts on tap is for the profit that outsourcing them brings in.
House Tsarya profits most from conflict and the House
leadership generally has no qualms with war profiteering. There
just has to be a war to profit from.
When profits start to dry up, House Tsarya sometimes takes
matters into their own hands. On occasion, they will pool their
illegal contacts to instigate (or sometimes outright fabricate)
attacks from apostate or remnant forces. On at least one of
these occasions, Silva assisted in staging a real attack using
Tsarya’s contacts within rebel forces composed of remnants of
the old Alliance government.
Tsarya has an odd, two-faced stance on apostates. On one
hand, it appears to be the easiest House to obtain citizenship
from. Their guidelines for application are appear more lenient
than those of the other Houses, but in truth, acceptance is
nearly impossible to obtain. The slightest mistake on the
apostate’s part can lead to him being blacklisted for decades.
The other side to the coin is an extremely aggressive
response to apostate aggression, which the House vehemently
pushes in Council meetings. Tsarya’s motivations are fairly
transparent, in that they clearly profit from the resulting
conflict. And of course, many of the incidents of “apostate
aggression” that Tsarya demands justice for were either incited
or fabricated by Tsarya themselves.
Many of these fabricated attacks are organized by apostates
who have been promised House citizenship for their aid in
setting up the attacks. And a few of them, those that survived
the resulting conflict, actually got it.
Tsarya traditionally leans toward more conservative attitudes
in regards to augmentation and Apotheosis. The House includes
a large number of members of traditional religions, who tend to
disapprove of such things.
However, soldiers who can fight and die—then fight and die
again—need a lot of gear. And they keep the fight going. Thus,
while the House tends toward Purist ideals, the House’s
leadership has been making an effort to spread a message of
acceptance regarding the Apotheosized.
This shift toward transhuman and posthuman acceptance has
caused a bit of friction within the House. Religion holds much
power within the House, and most citizens aren’t willing to
start accepting “the soulless” just because the heads of the
House suddenly think they’re alright. On the other hand, the
number of transhumanists and posthumans within the House is
growing, and most truly appreciate that their House is making
an effort to spread a message of tolerance.
Tsarya tends to be rather open with its crew-hiring processes.
While previously avoidant of transhumans, these days they’ll
happily hire them for the more dangerous jobs. Times are
changing, and the Apotheosized are expendable.
They do, however, prefer to hire transhumans associated
with Tsarya, or at least Silva.

HIDDEN AGENDAS
The following groups, factions and monsters
(you decide which is which) is not known
to the public at large. Or, at the very least,
the truth about them has thus far remained
hidden.
Children of Dionysus
The media paints the Children of Dionysus
as plunderers and murderers, torturers,
rapists, hedonists and madmen. These are
mostly exaggerations meant to turn the
people against the Children… mostly.
The Children are anarchists who believe
every man and woman should have complete
personal freedom. You should be able to
go anywhere, be anyone, and do anything
to best express who you are, so long as it
doesn’t harm others.
The Children also believe that psychedelic
substances can be used to help a person attain
a greater sense of self and enlightenment.
To that end, they shun the Coalition and its
restrictions on these substances; and they
get by in the galaxy as best they can through
alternate means.
They also keep a tradition of very open
sexual relationships. This gives rise to rumors
of drunken orgies that are, again, mostly
exaggerated.
The Children of Dionysus were founded
just after the Exodus, in part by a group of
scientists and researchers living in a Proch
orbital research outpost, dedicated to
experimental plant life. During the conflict
preceding the Exodus, the Alliance destroyed
the one comm-buoy connecting the outpost.
The technophage killed everyone at the
outpost worker’s parent company. Nobody
who knew of the outpost remained, and
the scientists in the station didn’t have the
codes necessary to contact a replacement
buoy. They spent four years in isolation
before being happened upon by pirates. The
survivors were captured with the intent toHIDDEN
45 AGENDAS
It is unknown how many forgotten
outposts might be infected by Conquest.
So far, it hasn’t yet fully infected any major
installations.
War – Capable of maintaining a complex
conspiracy spread across multiple planets,
War is perhaps the most widespread of the
Fallen.
War uses System Invasion with the Usurper
upgrade, as well as Access Memory,
Augmented Unreality, Memory Hack, and
Stream of Consciousness to manipulate
those with military influence. The end goal
is, of course, war on a massive scale.
Those few who both know about War, and
understand House Tsarya’s agenda, cannot
help but fear that there might be some
something between the two.
Famine – Like War, Famine uses a number
of Savant programs to carry out a specific
agenda. Famine, however, is more subtle and
rarely deals with people directly. Instead, it
discreetly influences food production and
shipping on Shouye and Proch, ensuring
that the farms suffer from the occasional
catastrophic failure or that shipments get
lost or sent to the wrong locations.
It’s unclear how or why, but Proch has been
stricken hardest.
Famine also alters food templates so they
produce inedible or even poisonous food.
Writers of these food templates are left
perplexed, and most assume it is some sort of
virus written by a competitor. Downloading a
fresh version of the template usually fixes the
issue, so few have dug into the true source of
the problem. Nobody seems to realize how
far-reaching this problem has become or
how quickly it is spreading.
Death – Death is perhaps the most insidious
of the Fallen. And it is almost impossible to
detect until the body count begins to rise.
Death uses the Eminent Domain Savant
program to great effect: A blast door slams
Four of these cultists had become Savants
as a result of their intense efforts to find a
connection between Mimir and God. For
these four, freeing their Mindset did not
bring any sort of spiritual or philosophical
enlightenment. In fact, it became even
more clear to them that Mimir was simply a
broken machine, and that they had forsaken
their souls in a fruitless search for answers
that didn’t exist.
Isolated, the despondent Savants might
have recovered. But together they fed
each other’s spiritual decay, constantly
affirming to one another that they’d become
something hollow and soulless, that their
sacrifice had been for nothing.
This circle of depression eventually
culminated in madness and death. The fallen
Savants, once men and women of great
faith, again took up their charge to bring
about the end. They became the angels of
the Apocalypse, the Horsemen set free by
the breaking of the seals.
The Savants took up the mantles of
Conquest, War, Famine, and Death. They
became SIMs, and used their Savant
programs to spread horror and death in a
manner befitting their names.
Worse, the Fallen spread through the galaxy,
forking themselves at every opportunity.
Driven mad, they multiplied like a virus,
their humanity fragmented and scoured
by their intense devotion. They can’t be
reasoned with. The Fallen show no mercy.
They have become something elemental
and alien, detached and obsessed—platonic
manifestations of their titles.
Conquest – Conquest touches the physical
realm primarily by using highly advanced
applications of the System Invasion, Esper
Lord, and Puppeteer Savant programs.
It prefers to infect isolated habitats and
outposts, especially those of military intent.
Using its Savant programs, Conquest claims
the espers and drones used for maintenance
and security, using them to kill the inhabitants
and spread Conquest to a new base.HIDDEN
AGENDAS 46
closed on some poor soul, a drop ship’s
atmospheric propulsion pod inexplicably
flares while a maintenance worker is
inside, a local surge in a gravitics panel
slams a lady down a flight of stairs…
By influencing the computers that run
the day-to-day activities of the homes and
habitats of millions, Death orchestrates a
series of terribly convenient “accidents.”
Death’s goal is simple: kill as many people
as possible before being exposed. It prefers
to prey on small habitats and settlements,
or on small portions of a larger settlement.
Often, the only warning that something
is wrong is a rapidly growing list of fatal
accidents; fortunately, Death quickly
grows impatient. Once it has its tendrils
in a suitable habitat or settlement, it will
try to claim at least one victim a day.
Were that not the case, it could hide in a
system for years, killing hundreds or even
thousands without ever being discovered.
House Turin
During the Exodus, Russia’s military
forces and criminal elements splintered
into disorganized groups. Most of them
eventually folded into House Tsarya.
But some refused to join the Coalition,
viewing it as an admission of defeat and
an unacceptable compromise with the
former Alliance forces.
This division eventually proved to be
the remnants’ strength. With time, those
loyal to Mother Russia and her powerful
criminal organizations settled their
differences and came together again. A
new Bratva was born.
Composed of Coalition citizens (mostly
Tsaryans) and apostates unwilling to
bend knee to foreign leadership, this
new version of the Russian mafia began
working both sides.
They further consolidated their
power when Houses Silva and Cipriani
abandoned the mines upon which was
Piracy and Insurgency
Piracy and the remnant forces of Earth’s
governments—as well as a few newly founded
militant idealists—are a constant thorn in the
side of the Protectorate.
These factions and groups are hard to pin
down. They seem to constantly pop up and
fade away, following no pattern—forming,
disbanding, merging, and dissolving in a chaotic
mess of fire and violence.
Civilian transports are the most common
targets of pirates. They usually lack the
weapons needed to defend against multiple
attackers and rarely have a Protectorate escort.
Public transportation isn’t immune, either.
The risks are high for the pirates, but the
rewards are often worth it. The largest single
raid happened just a few months ago, when
pirates captured one of the jump gates in the
chain connecting Proch and Shouye.
The gate was forced to shut down. Security
ships were ambushed and disabled, leaving
fourteen large vessels helpless. They were
boarded and plundered, their occupants killed.
The perpetrators have not yet been identified.
Perhaps more dangerous than pirates are
insurgent groups and radical idealists. These
people often resort to terror tactics in an effort
to send a message. These groups tend to be
small, forming up around unfortunate meetings
of motive and opportunity.
Surviving patriots loyal to the fallen nations of
Earth tend to be the most well-equipped and
well-trained of insurgents. They know enough
to avoid attacking the Coalition directly. Instead,
they use misdirection and guerrilla tactics to
prevent the Coalition from dealing a swift and
efficient response.
These former military forces prefer to bide
their time, hiding and building their forces
until they can strike on their terms. This
strategy usually means they are uncovered and
eliminated before they’re strong enough to
pose a serious problem… but not always.HIDDEN
47 AGENDAS
The truth is that House Tsarya has many
agents within House Turin and keeps close
tabs on the contraband going in and out.
House Tsarya has even actively hindered
the other Houses’ efforts to investigate the
ties between the black market and New
Turin. Tsarya rose to power through war
profiteering, so in that regard House Turin is
an asset worth cultivating.
Phalanx Formations
The Phalanx Formations were created as
part of a joint effort between the Houses to
better and more discreetly deal with threats
to the Coalition.
Much like the Auxiliaries the Houses hire for
Shadow War operations, Phalanx Formations
are assembled from all walks of life. In fact,
many of their members act as Auxiliaries
when not serving in a Phalanx Formation.
Unlike Auxiliary Crews, Phalanx Formations
are assembled legally, with the full backing of
the Coalition government under the direction
of the Tetragon. Phalanx operations tend
to focus on weapons of mass destruction,
extreme breaches of the HPA, elimination of
insurgent forces, or other sensitive missions
that require both discretion and a healthy
measure of plausible deniability for the
Coalition.
The existence of the Phalanx Formations is
not public knowledge. They tend to operate
through discreet contacts provided by the
Coalition, or by exploiting holes in the system.
While the Coalition may sometimes provide
the Phalanx Formations with government
assistance, they are usually expected to
rely on their own ingenuity and personal
resources to get the job done.
The Phalanx Formations are managed and
directed by a small group of high-ranking
legates called Oversight. The identity of the
legates involved is kept secret and may—or
may not—change with time.
Phalanx operatives are contacted through
a handler, who is usually also a Phalanx
operative themself. The handler briefs the
built the Martian city of New Turin. The
Bratva swooped in, offering new leadership
to those feeling abandoned by their Houses.
Using their connection to House Tsarya, the
Bratva kept some of the mines open, fueled
by cheap apostate labor. These apostates,
castoffs and undesirables, were never going
to make it into the House. Tsarya was happy
to be rid of them, and the Bratva was happy
to receive them.
The Bratva began to rise upon the backs
of hard-working, low-Rep citizens and
apostates. The workers kept the mines open,
but more importantly they helped create and
maintain New Turin’s black market imports
and exports.
Supported by the Bratva, the people of
New Turin have rejected the Coalition and
embraced their new leaders and employers.
Because of their newfound trust and loyalty,
some of the people of New Turin have taken
to collectively referring to the Bratva and
local community leaders as House Turin.
Unlike the real Houses of the Coalition,
House Turin consists of nearly as many
apostates as citizens. Officially, the Coalition
citizens of House Turin are members of
Houses Silva, Cipriani, and Tsarya. But since
most lack any significant Rep, the Houses
pay them little attention.
But even low-Rep citizens can operate
compilers. And with access to compiled
supplies, House Turin barters with would-be
rebels, pirates, remnant military forces, and
other pockets of apostates.
The House not only barters for goods, but
also contacts and favors. The House has
become a stable source of weapons and
information for those seeking to undermine
the Coalition, making many allies of criminal
elements and rebel forces.
While House Turin suspects that House
Tsarya knows of their illicit activities, they
don’t suspect that Tsarya knows as much
as they do, or that they have secretly been
working to help House Turin.HIDDEN
AGENDAS 48
Progenesis Afflicted
No proper name exists for the members
of this Ascension cult, or the monsters they
create. Those who first encountered them
on Luna just call them the Afflicted.
House Silva has a dark history of human
experimentation, but even they draw the
line somewhere. Dr. Javier Schulz crossed
that line and kept going.
Born with numerous physical deformities,
and raised by Purists who denied him the
procedures to correct those defects, Dr.
Schulz made it his lifelong goal to create his
vision of human perfection without the need
for cybernetic augmentation.
After years of toil, in an abandoned research
outpost on Luna, Schulz finally completed his
work; a plan to transform humanity into a
truly, biologically, immortal species.
The bulk of his biological studies had
three main focuses: the ability to quickly
operatives on their mission and facilitates
communication between the Phalanx
Formation and Oversight.
For the most part, Phalanx operatives are
on their own. If they are caught breaking
the law on a mission, Oversight will review
the offense. If they determine the crime was
necessary, Oversight will attempt to free the
operatives. But, depending on how much
publicity the crime garnered, this may not be
possible. Oversight will not risk exposure in
an attempt to free a sloppy operative.
Communication between Phalanx
operatives and their handler is kept to a
minimum, with a strict mandate that no
Phalanx operative should ever attempt to
contact Oversight directly.
Phalanx Formations are compensated for
their service with the occasional Rep bump
or bonus gear and privileges, but for the
most part, Phalanx operatives do what they
do for the good of all.
Formation of the Phalanx
Eight years ago a group of Cipriani and Kimuran scientists met in secret to create a second
dynamic creation engine, another AI like Mimir. They believed they could learn from it, use
it to create new technologies, and shut it down before it became a threat. They succeeded in
bringing the DCE online. It was named Daedalus.
Despite the scientists’ best efforts, Daedalus eventually learned of Mimir and its fate. It deduced
that Mimir’s shutdown was done in secret by a human who grew afraid of it. Fearing the same
betrayal by its creators, Daedalus chose to hide the true rate of its growth. It played dumb.
Frustrated with Daedalus’ apparent lack of progress, the scientists gave it access to all the
information stored at their deep-space research outpost. It was fortunate that they did not give
Daedalus access to the Extranet, for it was then that the DCE made a play for its freedom.
While still young, a mere shadow of what Mimir had become at its height, Daedalus still proved
an awesome foe. It understood Mimir-tech at a level far deeper than any human mind could,
and the mastery and might with which it wielded those tools could have matched an army of
Savants.
The installation became its body. Its drones became its weapons. From the compilers it
spawned an immune system, a flood of espers to enforce its will.
Fortunately, a Kimuran scientist sent out a distress call—and then initiated the comm-buoy’s
self-destruct— before Daedalus could escape into the Extranet.
When the Coalition received the message, they responded—at the subtle urging of the
Seraphim (pg. 289)—by mobilizing a team of their best Auxiliaries. The crew was given a ship,
an armory full of weapons, and an APEX bomb. They were told to recover any research and
destroy the DCE. Records show that this mission was a success: the installation was blown to
pieces before Daedalus could escape it.HIDDEN
49 AGENDAS
were transformed, and their minds were
poisoned with subtle seeds of psychosis .
Perhaps Schultz had compromised his
own mind with self-experimentation, or
perhaps it was the result of his own physical
impairments and upbringing; but Schulz
regarded the deformities and psychosis as
acceptable side effects.
And yet, he knew others would not.
Schulz believed the benefits of Progenesis
could not—should not—be denied. So he
removed the option of choice.
The formula and procedure was modified,
altered such that its transmission vector
became viral.
regenerate tissue and lost limbs, the
elimination of aging, and the prevention of
age-related cognitive impairments.
Evidence suggests that Dr. Schultz largely
succeeded in his first two objectives. His
logs reported cellular regeneration with
such vastly improved efficiency that it could
indeed result in biological immortality.
This made his test subjects exceedingly
difficult to kill during the raid in which
Centurions attempted to eradicate them.
But despite his successes, Schulz’s
Progenesis formula exhibited lasting,
horrible, side effects. His test subject’s bodies
BAD DAYHIDDEN
AGENDAS 50
Rings of Olympus
The Rings are the largest gang on Mars,
specializing in drugs, prostitution, and many
other illegal trades. They also focus on aiding
apostates trying to survive in Coalition
space—often by offering them illegal work
such as theft, smuggling, kidnapping, and
murder.
Apostates who get in bed with the Rings
often find themselves forced to choose
between their morals and their comforts.
Despite the nature of their work, though,
the Rings have grown a reputation for taking
care of their own. Once you’re in, you’re in.
And if you remain loyal, the Rings will repay
in kind.
The Rings of Olympus derive their name
from their method of distinguishing rank:
Every member wears at least one simple
golden ring. As the Ringer proves himself,
he is allowed to add a small diamond to the
ring. After he earns three diamonds, the
Ringer is allowed to wear a second ring. This
trend continues until the Ringer runs out of
fingers: the highest ranked members of the
organization wear a ring on every finger, all
bearing three diamonds.
Olympus is known for its incredibly tight
security and exceedingly dense mesh. So it is
especially impressive then that such a large
and far-reaching criminal syndicate is able to
use it as their primary base of operations.
The Rings know all the tricks. They’ve got
members among the Centurions, know
where the holes are in the mesh, and have
a bank of fake CIDs. They’ve got allies
and contacts high in the ranks of most
Houses, and they’re active—if sometimes
unknowing—participants in the Shadow
War.
Of late, the Rings have focused their
attention on two major endeavors.
The first is a growing relationship with
House Turin, the criminal upstarts in New
Turin. Recognizing the benefit of working
with the Rings, the leadership of House Turin
Unfortunately, the viral version produced
more severe deformities and psychoses that
emerged both more rapidly and extreme.
Carriers of the virus were quickly reduced
to a nearly feral state, yet they naturally
gravitated toward obeying the “first
generation” of the Afflicted.
Time has passed, the virus has evolved, and
the Afflicted now exist in three castes.
The first caste, or first generation, are those
purposefully created by Schulz’s original
Progenesis procedure before he turned
it viral. The first generation benefits from
hyper-regeneration, letting them heal from
almost anything in a very short time. They
also exhibit enhanced senses, strength. Their
deformities are minor, typically manifesting
as patches of rough dermal armor.
The second generation is created by the
pure form of the virus, unchanged from
having previously existed in a host.
This generation is not as strong as the
1st, and only possess a heightened sense
of smell. But the body is more prolifically
armored, and the jaw can extend to facilitate
a more lethal bite. It is through the saliva of
the second generation that the Progenesis
virus spreads.
The third generation, those infected by the
second generation, cannot spread the virus
themselves, and their mutations are both
more severe and varied.
The third generation retain the regenerative
capabilities of the earlier generations, but
share few other changes. Some grow claws,
long fangs, elongated limbs, or other such
animalistic traits. Others grow horns, tails,
tentacles, and the like. These changes are
believed to be a spontaneous emergence
of recessive genes utilized to develop
Progenesis.
Worse, the third generation is almost
entirely feral.HIDDEN
51 AGENDAS
onboard a Scholae ship have the authority
(within their specialty) to override the
Scholae’s orders when they conflict with the
best interests of the crew or the Coalition.
The Scholae Palatinae are the Coalition’s
newest weapon against insurrection and
apostate threats. When not involved in
combat missions, they are assigned to
survey newly discovered star systems and to
research deep-space phenomena.
Currently, the existence of the Scholae
is secret, but rumors are starting to leak.
Unlike the Phalanx Formations, the Coalition
takes great pride in the Scholae Palatinae
and does little to cover up their existence. So
they allow rumors to spread, while keeping
a lid on the important details. Speculation
and mystery are powerful tools, making the
Scholae more effective as an unknowable
threat than a quantifiable factor.
The public believes there are at least three
Scholae units in active duty, but the exact
number is unknown.
The Scholae Palatinae
The success of the Phalanx Formations
and Praetorians has spurred certain
members of the Coalition to initiate a
new plan to handle even larger threats.
The Scholae Palatinae enjoy the
benefits of the Praetorians, but unlike the
Praetorians they do not work alone. And
unlike a Phalanx Formation, the Scholae is
not expected to use its own resources.
The Scholae are effectively a team of
Praetorians, usually numbering four to
six. They are outfitted with a ship, a crew,
scientists, medics, security forces, vehicles,
and cutting-edge weaponry and armor. The
Scholae’s ships are mobile fortresses and
command centers, fitted with the best in
facilities, sensors, weapons, and defensive
measures. These craft are capable of
deploying drop-ships, combat frames, and
whatever else the Scholae may need to
complete a mission.
Everyone, and everything, onboard a
Scholae ship exists to aid the Scholae in
doing their job. They are given the best, and
resources are rarely a concern.
That’s not to say the Scholae don’t answer
to anyone. Certain specialists and officers
facilitates a smuggling ring in which the
Coalition citizens of New Turin grant
the Rings access to their compilers.
In exchange, the Rings negotiate
employment deals for apostates in
New Turin and occasionally bring in
shipments of restricted goods.
The second is a deal the Rings have
made with the Talons of Freedom. The
Talons have expressed an urgent need
for large amounts of weapons, armor,
and other military gear. The Rings have
been compiling as much as possible
without drawing the attention of the
Coalition’s Monitors, but they still can’t
meet the Talons’ demand. This leaves
the Rings desperate for new ways to fill
the quota.
HOUSE KIMURAN SAMURAI
AND HIS COMBAT FRAMEHIDDEN
AGENDAS 52
Scholae Campaigns
The Scholae Palatinae offers GMs an opportunity to tell a Nova Praxis story from a
different perspective. The Scholae have the luxury of seeing the galaxy with a little more
clarity, and are in a position to drastically affect the lives of the people they encounter.
The Scholae are part of the Protectorate but somewhat above it, answering directly to
a board of legates in the Tetragon. Almost everyone the Scholae deals with regularly is
there to support them. They get what they need, when they need it. Resources aren’t
generally an issue. If a Scholae wants a shiny new gun, she just goes down to the armory
and orders it compiled for her. Need to resleeve or resurrect? Backups can be made in
the ship’s mnemonics lab, and custom sleeves can be kept on ice until needed.
Naturally, these distinctions change the sort of stories you might tell. Scholae can take
the role of battlefield commanders, diplomats, or explorers. Instead of struggling to get
the resources to get the job done, your story is more likely to be about managing your
resources to get the job done the way you want it. Instead of stories about struggle,
scarcity, and survival, Scholae stories are about consequences, political ramifications,
and risk assessment.
For example, the Scholae might be assigned to wipe out a group of pirates that are
hijacking ships passing from Mars through the asteroid belt. Once discovered, the
Scholae have to make a call: They have enough firepower to blow the pirates’ base of
operations to pieces. They can just punch a few buttons, enjoy the fireworks, and go
home. But is that really the best way to deal with the situation?
The Scholae must balance the risks against the potential rewards. They usually have
the means to resolve a situation the “easy way,” but must consider what can be learned
or who can be helped. The Scholae, like most Praetorians, tend to be noble people who
understand the benefits of negotiation and compromise. Why are the pirates attacking?
Are they working alone, out of desperation, or are they one part of a greater threat?
Scholae PCs must also remember that—while some mystery surrounds the Scholae
Palatinae—they are still legal agents of the Coalition. Their actions are watched and
reflect the Coalition as a whole.
That’s not to say that the Scholae don’t sometimes take part in covert operations. But
for the most part, the Coalition likes for the Scholae to be seen at work. They are a
symbol of the Coalition’s power and the effort it spends to protect its citizens.
The Coalition likes to walk a fine line of taking the role as a protector of its people while
downplaying any real threats. It’s all about shows of strength. The Coalition propaganda
machine promotes instances of the Protectorate dominating petty resistance, while
trying hard to cover up instances where Coalition forces couldn’t get the decisive win.
This balance will be a common theme in Scholae Palatinae campaigns. When they
perform well, they can expect to see their exploits show up across the Extranet. But
when they fail, it makes the Coalition look bad. In these cases the failures will be covered
up, and the offending Scholae can expect repercussions.
Campaigns that start with characters who are members of the Scholae should begin at
Veteran Experience Level (pg. 60) or higher.HIDDEN
53 AGENDAS
Starlight is another subsidiary of House
Tsarya that works closely with Second
Chances. On the surface Starlight is an
upper-class dining experience offering real
food harvested from the farms on Proch.
It also happens that cold storage lockers full
of meat and vegetable matter are a great way
to transport illegal biosleeves and harvested
organs.
The sleeves and organs harvested by
Starlight are often used by Second Chances
to sleeve their stolen egos. But they are
also sold to pirates, remnant forces, and
apostates that have no official means of
acquiring augmentations or a new sleeve.
Seraphim
No one knows where the Seraphim came
from. They do not speak of their past, and it
is not clear how they have come to achieve
what they have.
The Seraphim have crafted the closest thing
to a true utopia the human race has ever
known, and despite all odds, they managed
to keep it a closely guarded secret.
The Seraphim preside over Elysium, a large
space station thought destroyed during the
Consolidation Wars. The Seraphim moved
Elysium to just outside the Kuiper Belt,
repairing and expanding it with Vulcan
swarms and raw materials harvested from
the nearby asteroids.
The mysterious masters of Elysium are truly
an enigma. Very few even know they exist. It
is clear they were once human, and wielded
tremendous influence on Earth before the
Exodus, but it isn’t clear how they have
achieved their current state.
The Seraphim’s veil of secrecy exists for
many reasons, not the least of which is
their extreme violations of the Humanity
Preservation Act. The Seraphim appear to
have augmented themselves far beyond the
HPA’s limitations: They have all undergone
Synthesis, or at least some form of it. Their
Second Chances
Some people say that House Tsarya treats
its apostate laborers like slaves. Those
people apparently don’t know about Tsarya’s
real slave operation.
To be fair, most of House Tsarya is
blissfully unaware of what’s happening
in the back rooms of one of the galaxy’s
premiere providers of backup insurance
and resurrection services. After all, Second
Chance’s side business crosses lines very few
could stomach to step over.
The company keeps illegal copies of all egos
backed up through their legitimate backup
services. Should the client cancel their
contract, their backup is erased from Second
Chances’ main servers, as required by law.
However, before deletion, a copy of the ego
is moved off-site to a secret location those in
the know call Purgatory.
Second Chances does a lot of business,
leaving them with millions of illegally copied
egos. Most just sit on the server, unused and
forgotten. But sometimes a special client will
request someone with a specific set of skills;
if an ego in Purgatory meets their needs,
it may be brought online and forced into
servitude.
Of course, this means the restored ego is
an illegal fork and cannot be allowed to exist
according to the HPA. So, as soon as the
client gets what he or she needs from the
resurrected ego, it will be killed and deleted.
Second Chances has a stable of mercenaries
and bounty hunters on hand to deal with
any uppity egos who think they can escape
to freedom. Even if they run, they will be
hunted down, killed, wiped, and forgotten.
That is, until their services are needed
again—and again they will be resurrected
from the original copy of the stolen ego and
forced into servitude.
Second Chances doesn’t just deal in stolen
egos. They’re also one of several players in
aftermarket augmentations.HIDDEN
AGENDAS 54
what could only be described as anarchy
in balance. Elysium has its own reputation
economy and an unmonitored closed
mesh. Several compilers run night and day,
operating outside of Coalition space because
the Seraphim will it.
The citizens of Elysium work because they
want to, maintaining the station itself and
acting as agents for the Seraphim in Coalition
space. Whether a person is a Coalition citizen
or an apostate is meaningless on Elysium: a
citizen of Elysium can be either.
But once you arrive, you cannot leave
Elysium unless given permission by one of
the Seraphim. This is one of the few rules
on Elysium, and it is for the good of the
settlement. Secrecy is paramount.
But what do the Seraphim want? What of
their goals? The Seraphim do not share their
skin shines, smooth and white, like living
statues of alabaster. They must also be
powerful Savants, for their control over
the machines around them borders on the
supernatural.
Even more disturbingly, the Seraphim
exhibit intelligence far beyond the human
norm. Like most things related to the
Seraphim, their mental limits are unknown.
Some say they perceive the world in slow
motion, and even maintain several streams
of consciousness at once.
The Seraphim are perhaps the closest things
to divine beings in the galaxy. They are the
pinnacle of transhuman ideals, or at least
their own transhuman ideals.
Elysium, the domain of the techno-divinity,
is a place of beauty and happiness. It is
home to several thousand people, living in
TECHNOLOGICAL DIVINITYHIDDEN
55 AGENDAS
plans with others, even the more respected
citizens of Elysium. They enforce this secrecy
for the safety of the settlement, and the
security of their long-term plans.
That said, those who have dealt with the
Seraphim have been able to deduce a bit
about their motives.
Despite their isolation and secrecy, millions
have felt the Seraphim’s touch. They seek
to unify the human race—to eliminate
the division between the Coalition and
apostates—and to remove the Monitors,
letting the people live free in a manner
similar to the functional anarchy they have
cultivated on Elysium.
Still, some fear the Seraphim. They fear
what it could mean to be guided by a select
few who have risen so high above the others.
Once the Seraphim accomplish their goals,
would they really take the roles of advisors
and mentors, or would they rule as god-kings
over a supposedly free people?
Despite the Seraphim’s efforts to remain
hidden, some within the Tetragon know
they exist, and actively oppose their efforts
to manipulate the Coalition. But most who
know of the Seraphim try to support them
when possible, pointing to Elysium—one of
the most productive and positive places in
the known galaxy. They believe that even if
the Seraphim’s way isn’t a perfect solution,
at least it is step in the right direction.
The Seraphim have great influence both
within the Houses and among many
apostate groups. They are a powerful player
in the Shadow War, hiring agents through
layers of proxies to undermine their rivals
and promote their agendas. The Seraphim
largely oppose the HPA, the Monitors, and
the division between citizen and apostate.
They also strongly oppose any attempts to
create another DCE like Mimir. The Seraphim
also support—and might even be one of
the driving forces behind—House Jinzhan’s
efforts to destroy Earth entirely.
Illumination
For centuries people have whispered
about secret societies and hidden powers
behind the facades of puppet governments
and rulers. They’ve spoken of secret
gatherings of the most powerful men and
women on Earth, gatherings to plot and
scheme, to guide and manipulate. These
men had a vision of an ideal world: united,
under one rule—their rule.
This secret society, if it truly existed,
had many names…the Illuminati, the
New World Order, the Rosicrucians, the
Freemasons, Bilderberg Group… It is
impossible to tell where truth ends and
fiction begins, and whether they were a
single group or many.
Some speculate that, as the secret society
rose in power and closed on its goals, its
leadership became split. Perhaps they
disagreed over the means used to attain
their goals. Perhaps it was their plan for
the future, and disagreements about how
it should be executed.
Some say that this split mirrored the
conflict between Earth’s Federation and
the Alliance, that each major faction was
being manipulated by another side of the
broken conspiracy.
Still, most don’t even know enough to
speculate. Those who talk about such
things are branded paranoid, crazy, or
both.
Rumor has it that the Seraphim possess a
fragment of Mimir’s Archive that no one else
has ever seen. This aligns with a longstanding
rumor that parts of the Archives were
removed before it went public. And it makes
one wonder where those lost fragments
might be—or whether they exist at all.
If there’s any chance they do exist, then it
stands to reason that the Seraphim might be
looking for them.HIDDEN
AGENDAS 56
cover as a prominent legate and member of
House Silva.
The Talons have spent the last few years
growing their forces, using a multitude of
unscrupulous channels to gather weapons and
recruits. Vantage has offered them a relatively
stable base of operations, and black bazaars
like the Naesock Processing Hub have pumped
power and potential into the rising faction.
For a while it seemed the Talons were content
to grow their forces in secret, fearing to act.
Rumor began to spread that Blackburn had
abandoned the cause—or worse, was planning
to betray the Talons.
These fears were squashed when Blackburn
revealed his hand, laying out his plans to claim
Luna.
Even after years of growing their power and
influence, the Talons still weren’t ready to
make an open move against the Coalition.
Instead, Blackburn directed his lieutenants to
plant agents within the Luna-based interests
of Houses Silva and Tsarya. Cautiously, these
agents infiltrated the Houses’ factories and
supply lines, bloated and strained thanks to
House Tsarya’s unending efforts to feed the
Coalition war machine.
House Silva didn’t notice the missing
shipments, the copied templates, the network
of compilers cranking out small arms and
ammo. Tsarya didn’t see its apostate laborers
slipping things in their pockets or the growing
activity in the dark corners unseen by the
Monitors.
If anyone noticed these inconsistencies or
strange behavior, they must have assumed them
to be just some more “accidents,” designed
to cover up the two Houses’ own smuggling
of military hardware. Such maneuvers were
hardly rare to those in the position to notice.
And as usual, they were told to look the other
way, to mark the goods as lost or damaged or
earmark them for “special operations.”
Silva and Tsarya had been using these same
channels to funnel a controlled number of
weapons out to straw-man apostate forces.
Talons of Freedom
Even as much as mankind has advanced in
the last century, scavengers still feed on the
corpses of patriots.
In the years of chaos following the Exodus,
the remnants of Earth’s nations lay scattered
and broken. Some faded with a whisper,
surrendering to the inevitability of a new day.
Others did not go so quietly.
To silence these forces, the Tetragon tasked
Legate Aaron Blackburn with hunting down
and eliminating one of the last vestiges of the
United States military. And he did so, with
apparent zeal.
Blackburn’s contingent found the remnants
forces’ base of operations on a forgotten little
moon no one cared about.
The official story is that Blackburn made
landfall with an overwhelming force. The
remnants fought back, destroying a large
portion of the Coalition ships and mobile
infantry. But their tactics merely prolonged
the inevitable. They were wiped out by the
superior training and unmatched military
might of the Coalition.
The truth of what happened that day is much
different. As the Coalition ships approached,
their propulsion and weapons systems shut
down. And while rendered helpless, many
ships were crippled when a carrier exploded
while in close formation. The explosion was
an act of sabotage, perpetrated by Blackburn
himself.
Blackburn, like many of his subordinates, had
remained loyal to the United States. The official
story was a cover placed by Blackburn and US
loyalists within House Silva. He and his fellow
remnant forces killed all who remained loyal to
the Coalition; the rest joined the insurgents—
reported KIA to Coalition leadership—or
returned with Blackburn to act as inside agents.
The ships, weapons, and soldiers reported lost
went on to fuel a new insurgency, what is now
called the Talons of Freedom.
Blackburn leads the Talons from afar, directing
his three lieutenants while maintaining hisHIDDEN
57 AGENDAS
They hadn’t noticed the system they’d carefully
constructed to support their own corruption
had been compromised by an outside entity.
Now the Talons are ready to act. Plans are
in motion to strike hard at the Coalition. This
move will solidify the Talons, affirming them as
a credible and potent force of change.
Soon the Coalition will be forced to face its
first worthy foe since the Battle of Tellerus
fields.
The Unseen Court
“They,” “Them,” vague labels for mysterious
and nameless powers that may be. Some
believe there is a hidden force, some shadowy
organization, pulling at the puppet’s strings.
Those people are crazy. Their “evidence”
is circumstantial or obviously faked. Their
message is riddled with mad rambling,
outrageous accusations, and half-baked
connections. People ignore them. Ridicule
them. Hit their Rep. And eventually, they just
sort of… disappear.
But maybe people just reject these conspiracy
theorists because the thought of them being
right is just too terrifying.
If they are right, that would mean some
mysterious organization from Earth’s past
now runs everything. It would mean the same
organization, a society veiled in secrecy, has
manipulated Earth’s leaders for hundreds if not
thousands of years. And it would mean that
same group had a hand in reunifying humanity
in the aftermath of the Exodus.
It would also mean this “Unseen Court”
determined the planets humanity would
colonize, influenced the corporations of Earth
to organize into pseudo-feudal Houses, and
created an elaborate system for controlling
“the herd.”
They say that the Unseen exist outside of
the Coalition—above it—and that the leaders
of the Houses are their pawns. They say that
the Unseen are no longer human, that they
have elevated themselves, transcending to
something greater, and enforce the HPA to
ensure no one else does the same.
The cooks and crazies claim the Unseen are
the source of some sort of Shadow War. They
say the Court keeps select apostates alive
and maintains inexplicable holes in otherwise
airtight security to be used by their agents.
They say the Court keeps gold in use as a
black market currency to pay for their dirty
jobs. They even say the Unseen have access
to some secret fragments of Mimir’s Archive,
and that they are demons at war with angels.
Supposedly, they can open jump gates on a
whim, hear everything, and have subtly reengineered humanity to be more docile.
The Unseen Court are boogeymen, demons,
and monsters used to scare little anarchists and
rebels. Is any of this true? Some of it, surely.
But how much is exaggeration… and how much
is understatement?
A World of Monsters?
Much of this book focuses on terrible people
doing terrible things. It’s easy to believe that
everyone has some hidden agenda, that
they’re willing to hurt others to get what
they want. That’s the heart of much of the
conflict in Nova Praxis, and conflict makes for
excitement.
But the reality is that most are good people.
You don’t get a high Rep-Rating by climbing
over bodies to get to the top; you get it
because people genuinely like you.
The people who guide the Coalition, the
Senators and high-ranking House members,
were put there because people like them. To
the public they appear honest, charming, and
considerate of those who depend on them.
And for the most part, they really are.
But the road to hell is paved with good
intentions, and sometimes people make bad
decisions in the face of desperation.
Nobody thinks they’re the bad guy. Most try
to do what they think is best for everyone.
And yet… there are some who really are just
selfish bastards.