
CREDITS1
Published by: Void Star Studios
Developer/Designer: Mike McConnell
Additional Design by: James Townsley, Joe Knapp
Edited by: Mitch A. Williams, Kristan McConnell, 
Joshua Yearsley, and the playtesters
Additional Contributions: Steve Townsley, Leland 
Dutro, Rob Stroud, Kyle Stroud, Wes Brown, Tomi 
Sarkkinen
Layout: Mike McConnell
Art Direction: Mike McConnell, Savage Mojo
Art: Andree Wallin, Andrew Chason, Andreas 
Schroth, Mike McConnell
Machination v. 1.1
Nova Praxis © 2014, Void Star Studios
www.voidstarstudios.com
LEGAL 2
Open Gaming License
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a The following text is 
the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 
2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc (“Wizards”). All Rights 
Reserved.
1. Definitions: (a)”Contributors” means the copyright 
and/or trademark owners who have contributed 
Open Game Content; (b)”Derivative Material” means 
copyrighted material including derivative works and 
translations (including into other computer languages), 
potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, 
upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other 
form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed 
or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, 
rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or 
otherwise distribute; (d)”Open Game Content” means the 
game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, 
processes and routines to the extent such content does 
not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement 
over the prior art and any additional content clearly 
identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, 
and means any work covered by this License, including 
translations and derivative works under copyright law, 
but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product 
Identity” means product and product line names, logos 
and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts; 
creatures characters; stories, storylines, plots, thematic 
elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, 
symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, 
concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other 
visual or audio representations; names and descriptions 
of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, 
teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, 
locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or 
supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic 
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark 
clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the 
Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open 
Game Content; (f ) “Trademark” means the logos, names, 
mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor 
to identify itself or its products or the associated products 
contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor 
(g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, 
copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create 
Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or 
“Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game 
Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open 
Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of 
this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open 
Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to 
or subtracted from this License except as described by the 
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied 
to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game 
Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this 
License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing 
to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual, 
worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive license with the 
exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are 
contributing original material as Open Game Content, 
You represent that Your Contributions are Your original 
creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the 
rights conveyed by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the 
COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the 
exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game 
Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You 
must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright 
holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original 
Open Game Content you Distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product 
Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility, 
except as expressly licensed in another, independent 
Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product 
Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-
adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark 
in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content 
except as expressly licensed in another, independent 
Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered 
Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game 
Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership 
of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity 
used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and 
interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You 
must clearly indicate which portions of the work that you 
are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents 
may publish updated versions of this License. You may use 
any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and 
distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed 
under any version of this License.
10 Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this 
License with every copy of the Open Game Content You 
Distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or 
advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any 
Contributor unless You have written permission from the 
Contributor to do so.
12 Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply 
with any of the terms of this License with respect to some 
or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial 
order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use 
any Open Game Material so affected.
13 Termination: This License will terminate automatically 
if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to cure 
such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the 
breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this 
License.
14 Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to 
be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to 
the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15 COPYRIGHT NOTICE Open Game License v 1.0 © 2000, 
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
FATE (Fantastic Adventures in Tabletop Entertainment) 
© 2003 by Evil Hat Productions LLC; Authors Robert 
Donoghue and Fred Hicks.
Machinations © 2014, Void Star Studios
Nova Praxis © 2010, Void Star Studios
Strands of Fate © 2010, Void Star Studios 
Strands of Power © 2010, Void Star Studios 
All material found in this book is deemed to be product 
identity.
First Printing 
CONTENTS3
CONTENTS
CHAPTER 1 - A LOOK AT NOVA PRAXIS 4
The Singularity and Mimir 6
Earth is Lost 6
Space and Other Worlds 6
The Coalition and Houses 6
Apostates 6
A (Nearly) Post-Scarcity Economy 7
Transhumanity 7
The Mesh and the Digital Divide 8
Savants 8
The Humanity Preservation Act 8
Open Conflict 8
Shadow Conflict 9
Optimistic Hard Sci-Fi 9
Nova Praxis and its Themes 9
CHAPTER 2 - HIDDEN AGENDAS 10
THE COALITION 12
A Consociationalist Government 12
The Coalition Government 13
Apostates (“Non-Citizens”) 16
THE HOUSES EXPANDED 20
House Cipriani 20
House Dalianis 24
House Jinzhan 28
House Kimura 32
House Silva 36
House Tsarya 40
HIDDEN AGENDAS 44
Children of Dionysus 44
The Fallen 44
House Turin 46
Phalanx Formations 47
Progenesis Afflicted 48
Rings of Olympus 50
The Scholae Palatinae 51
Second Chances 53
Seraphim 53
Talons of Freedom 56
The Unseen Court 57
CHAPTER 3 - THE GM’S TOOLBOX 58
EXPERIENCE LEVELS 60
REQUISITIONS 60
SEQUENCES 62
Setup 62
Running the Sequence 62
Skills in Sample Sequence 64
CAMPAIGN ARCS 66
Arc #1 - The Setup 66
Arc #2 - Betrayal on Ice 69
Arc #3 - To Be, Ort Not to Be 72
Arc #4 - Scholae Palatinae 75
CHAPTER 4 - GHOSTS IN DARKNESS 82
GHOSTS IN DARKNESS 84
ANTAGONISTS 108
INDEX 114
The Martian City of Olympus
A LOOK AT
NOVA PRAXIS
4

A LOOK AT
NOVA PRAXIS
5

A LOOK AT
NOVA PRAXIS
6
space stations in the Sol system. And there 
are dozens of other smaller colonies and 
habitats, both in the Sol system and beyond, 
that people call home.
The Coalition and Houses
In the wake of the Exodus there was chaos. 
The governments of Earth collapsed, and 
humanity struggled to survive in small 
isolated pockets.
The remnants of Earth’s corporations and 
governments eventually grew into what 
would become the Houses. And in time, the 
Houses came together to form the Coalition 
of Free States.
The Coalition is humanity’s only officially 
recognized government. It is made up of the 
Houses, of which every Coalition citizen is a 
member.
Advanced technology has made it possible 
for the Coalition government to meet all of 
the needs of its citizens; who live in what 
many would describe as a utopia. But the 
people pay a hidden cost for life in paradise. 
They pay with their privacy, and their 
freedom, and there are many who chafe 
under the restrictions placed upon them.
Apostates
Not everyone is a member of the Coalition. 
Some choose, or are forced by circumstance, 
to live outside the Houses. These non-
citizens are called apostates.
Many apostates survive by avoiding the 
Coalition’s Protectorate, and scavenging 
on the outskirts of civilization. Some work 
for one of the Houses in hopes of gaining 
citizenship, usually slaving for years with 
very little hope of acceptance.
Apostates who live apart from the Coalition 
are certainly more free than Coalition 
citizens, but do not benefit from the 
Coalition’s resources. For many apostates, 
every day is a struggle to get by.
The Singularity and Mimir
In the year 2042, the exponential pace of 
technological advancement gave way to an 
AI of unprecedented potential. This AI, called 
Mimir (pronounced “Me-Mer”), ran for three 
months before mysteriously shutting down. 
During its short lifespan, it advanced human 
technology by nearly a millennium.
Humanity now combs through Mimir’s 
research archives in search of new technology. 
The Archives are publicly available to all on 
the Extranet, but it typically requires large 
teams with tremendous funding to find 
anything useful.
Earth is Lost
Humanity has left Earth, fleeing destruction 
in an event called the Exodus. The 
Technophage was a nanotechnological 
weapon deployed as a last resort during 
a terrible global war. Control over the 
technophage was lost, and soon became a 
global threat. The war ended as humanity 
fled, leaving Earth in an event that would 
come to be called the Exodus.
Just under one hundred million people 
survived. And now, thousands work 
around the clock, wielding mankind’s most 
destructive weapons, to maintain the 
technophage’s Earth quarantine.
Space and Other Worlds
One of Mimir’s biggest inventions was the 
jump drive, which allowed spacecraft to 
travel light years in just a few hours.
This technology also made it possible to 
create a system-spanning jump ring network, 
which facilitates travel between the six major 
worlds mankind now inhabits.
The largest portion of humans remain in the 
Sol system, particularly on Luna and Mars. 
The rest inhabit other planets, moons and 
BULLET POINTS
A LOOK AT
NOVA PRAXIS
7
The Houses at a Glance
Cipriani
Purist, Elegance and Style, Power Systems 
and CIST Technology
Dalianis
Purist, Competitive and Expansionist, Small 
Arms, Starships and Combat Drones
Jinzhan
Strongly Purist, Independent and 
Isolationist, Wants to Destroy Earth
Silva
Transhumanist, Secretive and Devious, 
Masters of Biotech, Energy Weapons and 
Warfare
Tsarya
Purist Leaning, Exploitative, Manipulative, 
Machines of War, Driven to Conflict
Kimura
Transhumanist, Highly Techno-Progressive, 
Traditionally Neutral, Masters of Software
for humanity to change itself.
Bioware augmentations af-fect the genetic 
code of an individual, protecting her against 
disease and providing any number of 
biological enhancements.
Cyberware is where man meets machine. 
Nano-technological machine com-ponents 
are introduced into the body, resulting 
in powerful enhancements, upgraded or 
additional limbs, senses, or protection.
Of note, the single most transformative 
and contro-versial type of augmentation 
is a process called Apotheosis. During 
Apotheosis, the recipient’s brain is gradually, 
slowly, and seamlessly replaced by a network 
of nanomachines called a Mindset.
Once complete, the recipient still feels and 
behaves like himself. But he is not. His mind 
has been transformed into software, and 
runs on a cybernetic brain.
A (Nearly) Post-Scarcity Economy
Advanced technology has made it possible 
to dissolve the barriers between people and 
the resources they need to survive. This new 
era of abundance was made possible by the 
compiler technology created by Mimir, and is 
enforced by the Coalition itself.
Most citizens own at least one compiler and 
decompiler. These devices are used to quickly 
fabricate finished goods from raw materials, 
or break compiled items back down into 
their composite molecules. Together, these 
two technologies can be used to recycle with 
nearly 100% efficiency.
With the collapse of the world’s economies, 
and the devaluation of most goods, a new 
economy arose; one built on the only thing of 
true value, individuality. All Coalition citizens 
have a Reputation Rating, which determines 
what resources they are allowed to utilize in 
excess of the default standard available to all 
citizens.
A person’s Rep-Rating is affected by 
how people see you, how much you are 
respected, and how much you have given 
back to society. It is an attempt to quantify 
the value of a person, and it is determined 
by one’s contributions, and value to one’s 
peers.
Make enemies, leave bad impressions, or 
use more than your fair share, and you might 
find yourself ostracized and cut off from the 
finer things in life.
Apostates are not part of the Reputation 
economy, and instead barter for their goods 
and services. More organized apostate 
enclaves and networks are also known to 
use gold as a currency, though this can be 
dangerous since the Coalition has outlawed 
all minting of physical currency.
Transhumanity
Nova Praxis  is a setting that explores the 
co-evolution of humans and technology. 
Mimir’s inventions, called Mimir-tech, 
changed every-thing. And it paved the way 
A LOOK AT
NOVA PRAXIS
8
Savants
In a world of computers, the admin is god. 
Savants are rare Apotheosized individuals 
who have freed their Mindsets of their 
government imposed restrictions, enabling 
them to seize control of other computers 
systems.
Savants can direct swarms of nanomachines 
with a thought, view distant locations 
through mesh sensors, dive into another 
person’s digital dirty secrets, control a 
habitat’s atmospheric and artificial gravity 
systems, and far more. Savants are rare, 
mysterious, and feared by anyone with 
any sense. Software and systems become 
extensions of their will, and they can turn 
the very environment itself against their 
enemies.
The Humanity Preservation Act
As might be expected, not everyone is 
eager to become software or otherwise 
tamper with their humanity. Members of 
various Purist movements actively campaign 
against  the proliferation of augmentation 
technology. They fear that they will one day 
be forced to augment themselves to remain 
competitive or even safe. These people see 
Savants and post-human aberrants as proof 
that augmentation tech must be outlawed, 
or at least more tightly controlled.
The Humanity Preservation Act was put 
into place to do just that. The HPA limits 
how far a person can be legally augmented, 
insures that minds suffering from extreme 
Fragmentation are not restored, and bans 
the practice of leaving more than one copy 
of a mind active at a time.
But as history as shown, not everyone obeys 
the law...
Open Conflict
The Coalition’s military and police, called 
the Protectorate, engages in small scale 
conflicts on a regular basis.
Once the mind has made the transition, 
it can be downloaded into other bodies, 
called “sleeves”, or left to live in a virtual 
environment as a Substrate Independent 
Mind (SIM).
Minds can be backed up, restored, copied, 
and even combined.
Roughly 35% of humanity has now 
undergone Apotheosis, and that number 
grows with each passing year.
Advanced technology has changed many 
aspects of life. Data can be streamed directly 
into the visual cortex. Communication can 
happen with a thought. Memories can be 
recorded and played back later. Virtual 
worlds can be made indistinguishable from 
reality, and people count on digital agents 
to answer questions, offer advice, and help 
manage their lives.
We have become a human-machine 
civilization, a symbiotic union of the mind 
and software, the organic and synthetic.
The Mesh and the Digital Divide
Everything is connected. In Coalition 
controlled areas, the environment itself is like 
one big machine. Sensors are everywhere. 
The machine sees all, and hears all. This is 
the Mesh.
This massive stream of sensory data flows 
through the Monitors, powerful AIs created 
specifically to watch and report on events the 
Coalition government might find interesting. 
They log crimes, and are the eyes and ears of 
Inter-Rep, the organization that administers 
the Reputation system.
But the Mesh is far more than a ubiquitous 
security system; it is the always-on 
connection to the machines around you. 
Personal devices and augmentations connect 
to the mesh, and rely on its vast network of 
sensors to provide data and interpret the 
user’s words and gestures as commands. 
A LOOK AT
NOVA PRAXIS
9
Optimistic Hard Sci-Fi
Nova Praxis is a sci-fi setting that makes use 
of a number of miraculous technologies. But 
just as it is defined by its features, it is also 
defined by its limits.
Psychic abilities are rumored to exist, but 
have never been reliably demonstrated.
Alien life exists on many of the planets 
humans have colonized, but we have never 
met another truly intelligent species like 
ourselves.
Force fields can bend light, but not matter. 
Massive jump drives are the only means of 
faster than light travel. And the HPA insures a 
person remains recognizably human… most 
of the time.
Nova Praxis and its Themes
Nova Praxis is a setting about humanity in 
transition, walking along the razor’s edge. In 
the wake of unimaginable destruction and 
loss, mankind has seized the opportunity 
to start anew. We have the opportunity 
to become a race of exalted gods, or face 
extinction kicking and screaming.
The themes represented in Nova Praxis 
reflect the dangers of extremist philosophies 
and behavior as they exist in a post-singularity 
setting, and the struggle to survive in the 
chaos between those extremes…
Man vs. Machine
Tradition vs. Progression
Comfortable Mortality vs. Uncertain Eternity
Dystopian Liberty vs. Utopian Oppression
Capitalism vs. Socialism
Apostate vs. Citizen
Popular Lies vs. Hidden Truths
In Nova Praxis , these themes play out 
against a backdrop of conspiracy, action, and 
intrigue.
Piracy is a constant concern, as civilian 
and military craft are regularly hijacked by 
apostates for their supplies. These supplies 
usually go back to a hidden community 
somewhere, but are sometimes used to 
supply a budding resistance force.
Remnants of Earth’s governments still 
exist, and many of them wage a guerrilla 
war against the Coalition. Others wait in the 
shadows, gathering resources and waiting 
for an opportunity to strike.
Weaponized starships, bipedal combat 
frames, rail guns, particle accelerator rifles… 
These are the deadly tools of the trade 
employed on all sides.
Shadow Conflict
Beneath the Coalition’s veneer of safety and 
civilization, a war rages in the shadows. Few 
know about it, and nobody talks about it.
This battle, fought between small teams  of 
deniable operatives called Auxiliaries, has 
been waging in some form or another for 
decades. Assassination, kidnapping, spying, 
sabotage, smuggling, theft, arson… the 
Houses will do anything for a competitive 
edge. 
But it all remains hidden. Official reports 
mysteriously disappear. Organized media 
turns a blind eye. Outspoken “conspiracy 
theorists” fall strangely silent.. The Shadow 
War rages on, as it always has, unseen by the 
public at large.
The Coalition’s seemingly ubiquitous 
surveillance and security system has holes 
and exploits, back doors left open by the 
Houses so that their agents can work behind 
the scenes.
Their Auxiliaries, and others of their ilk, have 
discovered these flaws and exploits. And they 
make use of them to move contraband, slip 
through security checkpoints, or accomplish 
other illicit objectives.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
10

HIDDEN
AGENDAS
11

HIDDEN
AGENDAS
12
Any Coalition citizen may challenge any law 
at any time. If that person is able to gather 
three million signatures via Extranet petition 
within one year, a vote must be scheduled 
where voters decide whether to accept or 
reject the law.
Of course, since a citizen’s Rep-Rating 
determines the weight of his vote, politicians 
most often champion laws that benefit high-
Rep citizens over those of lower Rep, such as 
the recent increase to the maximum rating a 
person can have. 
The fact that the politicians themselves 
have high Rep doesn’t do much to deter the 
favoritism. This, of course, leads to dissent 
among those of lower Rep. Because of their 
low Rep ratings though, their votes count 
for little and they find it very difficult to get 
anyone to listen to their criticisms.
The Houses
These “free states” soon became known 
as the Houses. They came to fill the roles of 
nation, employer, and family.
Every citizen of the Coalition is born into 
a House, and with it comes a contract. The 
citizen is granted a minimum standard of 
living that is, by most comparisons, rather 
comfortable. And in return for the near-
utopian quality of life most citizens enjoy, 
they are expected to work to further the 
interests of their House. As they do so, their 
Rep-Rating increases, which affords them an 
even more luxurious lifestyle.
Each House has its own laws and, within 
certain limits, can govern itself outside of 
Coalition jurisdiction.
The Consolidation Concord gives the Houses 
dominion over any laws that relate to cultural 
standards, most notably those related to 
morality, religion, and augmentation. 
The House also determines its own system 
of rank and handles any internal disputes 
that do not explicitly break Coalition law.
These laws are enforced by the Protectorate 
in much the same way Coalition laws are. 
THE COALITION
The majority of people living today, roughly 
80%, are members of the Coalition of Free 
States. Founded and backed by the six 
Houses, the Coalition claims all explored 
space as its domain.
After the destruction of Earth and the 
resulting Exodus, humanity found itself 
desperate and lost. For most of the survivors, 
the corporations responsible for organizing 
and carrying out the Exodus were the only 
sort of order to be found in their lives.
Those corporations, with the backing of 
those they saved, eventually rose up and 
created a new government. The Alliance 
and Federation were cast aside. And on 
October 20th, 72 PS the corporations signed 
the Consolidation Concord. This founding 
document officially established the six 
most influential corporate conglomerates 
as Houses, and created a Senate composed 
of members of each House to act as their 
guiding body.
The heart of the Coalition government 
is now located on Olympus, while the 
individual Houses maintain separate capitals 
across multiple planets and even moons.
A Consociationalist Government
The Coalition features a direct 
representational government, wherein all 
recognized members of all six Houses may 
cast votes on any laws put forth by an elected 
Senate.
The Senate consists of seven members of 
each House, elected by members of their 
House. The primary role of the senators is 
to determine which laws come up for vote, 
interpret the Coalition’s laws, and place 
citizens into positions of lesser authority.
The Coalition’s laws are gathered into 
the Consolidation Concord, which defines 
the role of the Coalition government in 
relationship to the House Charters, which 
define House-specific laws.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
13
Only members of a House are subject to 
its laws, which can only be enforced by a 
Centurion who is also a member of that 
House. Moreover, House law enforcement 
is always considered a lower priority than 
Coalition law enforcement.
Because House law isn’t as highly regarded 
as Coalition law by Protectorate forces, 
some Houses employ their own brand of law 
enforcement. The methods used by House 
law enforcers vary from House to House, 
but they have no jurisdiction over Coalition 
law. As one might expect, this can become 
a rather touchy issue when House and 
Coalition laws overlap.
Members of the Houses, for the most part, 
tend to look upon their House with pride. 
After all, the Houses are run by those with 
high Rep-Ratings, and you don’t get a high 
Rep-Rating by being hated by your peers.
In many ways, the Houses are regarded 
much the same way a pre-singularity person 
might have viewed a favorite political party 
or maybe sports team. They root for their 
Houses as they negotiate the complex 
political workings of the Coalition, and take 
pride whenever their House develops some 
new product or gets the best of another 
House in some political struggle.
The Coalition Government
Despite the hyper-competitive behavior 
of the Houses, in the end they all serve the 
collective will of the people and comprise 
the Coalition of Free States.
Officers of the Coalition are chosen from 
high-Rep members of the Houses who have 
demonstrated exceptional skill related to 
the office they are to fill.
These officers, usually called Ministers, 
work to ensure the Coalition functions 
smoothly. Hundreds of different Ministries 
exist, ranging from the Ministry of Medicine 
to the Ministry of Parks and Wildlife. Each 
Ministry has its own hierarchy, those 
in charge usually aided by a number of 
associates. Associate Ministers further 
delegate tasks to contracted employers and 
volunteers.
Because of internal corruption and political 
agendas, many Ministries have become 
bureaucratic nightmares. House favoritism 
is one of the most common accusations a 
Senator hears during his or her tenure.
tit an city
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
14
To further complicate affairs, a Ministry 
may not have the jurisdiction to enforce law 
in their area of expertise. In these cases, the 
Ministry must work with the Houses to reach 
some sort of agreement.
The Protectorate
The Protectorate is the active body of the 
Coalition, its law enforcement and military 
arms. As such, it is split into two main 
branches: the Centurions and the Legions.
Centurions - The Centurions are responsible 
for law enforcement and dealing with the 
civilian public. 
Most Centurions are assigned to security. 
This involves going on regular patrols or 
guarding over areas of particular import.
Centurions typically patrol highly populated 
areas, on foot or using specialized skiffs. 
Some even use lancers, but those are less 
common because of their inherent danger.
Centurions work about four hours a day, 
performing their civic duties in exchange 
for a bit of state-sponsored Rep. An officer’s 
Rep can be bumped by civilians, but the AIs 
at InterRep protect the officer’s Rep from 
those who would hit it just because he wears 
a badge.
Centurions are supported by their fellow 
officers, but also by an array of useful drones. 
The Lonestar security drone is a familiar sight 
throughout Coalition space, but Centurions 
also regularly use smaller airborne drones to 
quickly survey crowds of people.
Some Centurions go on to become 
investigators. Backed by the Monitors, 
Centurion investigators do the legwork, 
talking to witnesses and digging up clues the 
“all-seeing eyes” missed.
When diplomacy fails, Centurions are 
authorized to use force, up to and including 
deadly force. Most Centurions carry at least 
one lethal weapon coded to their CID. But 
when things get really bad, they call in a 
Tactical Assault Team, or TAT.
Officers in TATs are well trained and heavily 
armed. They use military-grade weaponry 
and often sport powered armor.
A TAT team might be called in to deal with a 
hostage crisis, raid an illegal drug lab, handle 
insurgents until the Legionnaires can arrive, 
or take on similarly dangerous assignments.
The Legions  - Individually referred to as 
Legionnaires, or collectively as just “The 
Legions,” they make up the individual 
branches of the Coalition military.
All of the Legions fall under the jurisdiction 
of Coalition Legion Central Command, 
sometimes called Cent-Comm but usually 
referred to just as the Tetragon.
The Tetragon consists of some of the highest-
ranking admirals, generals, and legates from 
the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd Legions, and they take 
their orders directly from the Senate.
Coalition Authority
There are some areas of governance 
where the Coalition is the absolute 
authority. As set forth by the Consolidation 
Concord, the Coalition government is 
responsible for: 
 ª Wielding the Protectorate as an 
extension of the will of the people
 ª Maintaining infrastructure such as 
the jump ring network
 ª Ensuring all citizens are granted an 
acceptable default standard of living
 ª Ensuring the availability and safety 
of medical treatment (this extends to 
upholding the HPA)
 ª Ensuring that no group—whether 
race, sex, religion, or creed—is 
denied a voice in the Coalition
 ª Maintaining the economy (which has 
become a matter for InterRep)
 ª Settling disputes between Houses 
and forcing their end if needed
 ª Operating and maintaining the 
Ministries, and ensuring the day-to-
day governance of the Coalition is 
not neglected.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
15
The Legions are, as follows: 
The 1st Legion - Space and Aerial Command 
– Typically referred to as SACom (“SAY-
Com”), it is responsible for all aerial or space-
based combat and non-combat operations.
Their influence covers not only exploration 
and logistics, but also carrier deployments 
into combat, as well as designating dedicated 
attack craft for bombing runs or strategic 
aerial strikes.
The 2nd Legion - The Coalition Marine 
Corps – About fifty thousand strong, the 
Marines are stationed on numerous planets, 
outposts, and carrier ships, never more than 
a day from any part of Coalition space.
The Marines are trained to fight in any 
environment with a broad array of weapons. 
They are the Coalition’s primary force for 
asserting its will, and as such they get the 
best equipment that modern technology 
can provide. Their standard gear includes 
high-end PAc rifles, powered armor, combat 
frames, mono-edge blades… the works. 
The Marine’s training with melee weapons 
has long been romanticized by the public, 
now a point of pride within the ranks. 
Some claim their training with spears and 
swords is just for show. But these weapons 
have proven practical on many occasions, 
particularly when boarding enemy ships, 
repelling boarders, or when stray shots from 
high-powered firearms could damage critical 
ship components or injure bystanders.
But if it can be said the public romanticizes 
the Marines and their melee weapons, then 
they downright fixate on their frames. 
Combat frames represent the might the 
Coalition can bring to bear against its 
enemies. They have become a symbol of 
power for the Marines, who’ve used Extranet 
footage of heavy frames dropping into the 
battlefield as promotional material for years.
Marines who pilot combat frames go 
through incredibly rigorous training, and 
most undergo Apotheosis to ensure the best 
possible connection to their frame during 
combat.
The 3rd Legion - Intelligence, Com-
munication, and Organization Network 
(ICON) – The public perception of ICON is 
that of a shadowy network of spies and 
spooks.
And this is mostly true. ICON exists to 
collect information and put that information 
to use. ICON agents are the eyes and ears of 
the Tetragon, and it is through them that the 
Senate learns the “truth” about events in the 
galaxy.
Lately, some citizens—and even some 
Coalition officials—have begun expressing 
concern over ICONS’ role in the government 
and just how much influence they actually 
wield.
The 4th Legion - The 4th doesn’t officially 
exist. When spoken of as a collective, 
usually in hushed tones, it is usually just 
called “The 4th Legion.” This Legion consists 
of the Protectorate’s hidden assets and 
independent agents. These operatives, 
including the Praetorians, Phalanx 
Formations, and Scholae Palatinae, receive 
their orders directly from the Tetragon or 
their proxies.
Of the 4th Legion assets, the Praetorians are 
the most well know. Many are even famous. 
Similar in some respects to state-sanctioned 
detectives and bounty hunters, Praetorians 
are granted cutting edge training, gear, 
and transport—anything they need to 
bring in their prey. In addition, Praetorians 
are exempt from most laws, are given VIP 
treatment at most establishments, and are 
granted unrestricted access to the Monitors’ 
security feeds. They also carry override codes 
that allow them to fabricate anything they 
need from a compiler, including restricted 
items. Some of these privileges can also be 
extended to those under their employ.
These privileges are not something given out 
casually, however. Tradition holds that there 
are never more than thirty-six Praetorians at 
a time, with six from each House.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
16
In truth, for what they are given, Coalition 
citizens pay a hefty sum: their freedom. They 
are watched, constantly, by the Monitors—
even in their own homes, where few rooms 
offer privacy from the watching eyes of the 
AIs.
But the average citizen rarely thinks about 
this. And for some, it’s the only life they’ve 
ever known. It is the price they pay for 
security and the mesh.
Despite the lack of privacy, the average 
Coalition citizen is happy. They trust the 
government and their House to look out for 
them and keep them safe.
Few would argue that the Coalition, 
working with the Houses, has not been able 
to provide for its people.
Most citizens ignore the extreme and 
nearly ubiquitous breaches of their personal 
privacy. And why not? Those who behave 
have nothing to fear, and it’s a small price to 
pay for safety. How else, short of boundless 
The Life of a Citizen
Even the lowliest Coalition citizens can 
manage a pretty healthy and happy lifestyle. 
The government provides a default standard 
of living for all. Even those who never set out 
to accomplish anything are given the food, 
shelter, and security necessary to not only 
survive, but to be happy. 
It is estimated that roughly 19% of Coalition 
citizens choose to default; thanks to modern 
technology, they get just about anything 
they need at a negligible cost to themselves.
Compilers are provided to each household. 
Even those who default are granted one—
although it might be a little small. Even 
the most basic compilers come with free 
templates for most household items, though.
Fortunately for society as a whole, the 
other 81% aren’t content to lie on a couch 
browsing sensies while eating fabricated 
cheese-sticks all day.
The Coalition manages a reputation-
based economy designed to promote the 
betterment of all. Simply put, the more you 
contribute to society, the greater you are 
rewarded.
This system compels citizens to work, to 
create, or perform services for others. It 
inspires them to get out of bed each morning, 
and to treat each other with respect.
The Coalition is a utopian prison, a gilded 
cage. It’s a privileged panopticon, where 
citizens are allowed to live a life of leisure 
under constant surveillance.
Coalition citizens want for little. Regardless 
of their Rep-Rating, the basics of life are 
provided. Compilers provide food, clothing, 
and the basic necessities, all free of charge. 
The citizen’s Rep-Rating determines what 
else she can compile and to what extent she 
can acquire luxury items or enjoy extravagant 
experiences.
The Coalition enjoys the closest thing to a 
post-scarcity economic system, but nothing 
is truly free. There will always be scarcity in 
unique creations and experiences. 
centurion and lonest ar
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
17
holograms, or outfit themselves with their 
own sensors to use as AR interfaces.
But no spyders means no direct oversight. 
Apostate enclaves may still have security 
devices and depend on security drones or 
personnel, viewing these things as necessary 
evils, but they more often rely on human 
effort for security and local law enforcement. 
They are human after all, and some forms of 
security are still necessary to protect enclave 
citizens from their less scrupulous brethren.
Despite the lessened security, apostate en-
claves see about the same amount of crime 
as Coalition habitats or cities. The difference, 
however, is in which behaviors apostates 
consider criminal. 
Apostate laws tend to focus almost entirely 
on crimes that cause harm to another. 
Apostates often cite some variation of the 
popular Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. quote, 
“The right to swing my fist ends where the 
other man’s nose begins.” This sentiment 
underscores the mentality of most apostate 
citizens, who maintain a very strong belief 
that government should not infringe on 
the privacy or freedoms of its law-abiding 
citizens.
The enclaves most apostates live in are 
both numerous and scattered. Some are 
mobile space stations pieced together 
and maintained as well as their citizens 
can manage. Others are clusters of ships, 
abandoned colonies, old mining facilities, or 
other improvised shelters in the outskirts of 
Coalition habitats. Very often apostates get 
by living on the Coalition’s scraps.
The largest apostate establishment is the 
city of New Montreal on HD413, also known 
as Sanctuary. New Montreal, along with a 
number of smaller apostate communities 
on Sanctuary, makes up the majority of 
the known apostate population. The rest 
are spread throughout less permanent 
establishments made from abandoned 
facilities, grounded ships, and other 
communities founded in uncharted space.
surveillance, can one hope to protect 
against the weapons that post-singularity 
technology can forge?
Apostates (“Non-Citizens”)
It is estimated that around 20% of humanity 
is not registered as citizens of the Coalition. 
These people lack a CID, either because they 
were born outside of Coalition space or 
because they removed them.
Most apostates were born that way. Or 
exiled. Few leave the Coalition by choice, but 
those who do have their reasons. Usually, 
they either cannot stomach the Coalition’s 
surveillance practices, or they can no longer 
tolerate some other aspect of Coalition life.
Apostates have a hard life. In some places 
they are arrested on sight. But in most places 
they are tolerated so long as they can prove 
they are actively working toward House 
membership.
The Houses must offer apostates a chance 
to earn citizenship, though each House 
determines their own acceptance criteria. 
Some just make it difficult; others make it a 
hellish undertaking with very little chance of 
success.
A great many apostates have no desire to 
associate with the Coalition at all. They roam 
in the galaxy aboard rogue ships or flotillas 
of patchwork craft, or stow away in hidden 
enclaves. Most of them get by on what they 
can salvage or make for themselves. It’s a 
tough existence, but most believe it offers 
the only path to true freedom.
Apostates claim they are free of the ever-
watchful eyes of the Coalition Monitors, 
which they often refer to as spyders. For 
most apostates, this claim to freedom is 
true; apostate enclaves that are outfitted 
with meshes do not have a Monitor. The 
mesh exists only to better interface the user 
with the local shared augmented reality 
space. Many apostate enclaves don’t even 
have any sort of mesh at all. Citizens of non-
meshed areas often rely on physical displays, 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
18
novelties. Similarly, food prepared using 
traditional cooking techniques is considered 
a delicacy. These views often make products 
of apostate origin rare and valuable.
Favor trading has resulted in a thriving black 
market. Apostates can offer weapons, drugs, 
and other items restricted by the Coalition, 
while Coalition citizens have easy access to 
food, medicines, and all the comforts of life.
The currency of choice on the black market 
is gold, and is often worn in Coalition space 
as a way to tell others that you are open to 
bartering with apostates.
Remnant Forces
Most apostates are willing to write off  
Coalition citizens as lost causes. The way 
apostates see it, if they are willing to trade 
their freedom for shiny trinkets, so be it.
But there are others who are not so content. 
Among these discontent are those still loyal 
to the old nations of Earth. For them, the war 
One of the most notable of the transient 
establishments is the Santa Maria flotilla, a 
collection of a few dozen ships. One of these 
ships is the Gatekeeper, a seized Coalition 
carrier capable of deploying a jump gate. 
The Santa Maria typically avoids Coalition 
space, but acts as a safe haven for apostates 
on the run and a staging point for salvage 
operations and raids.
Often apostates look to theft or piracy as a 
quick way to get what they need. Compilers 
are specifically designed to only work for 
Coalition citizens, thus gaining access to 
a functional compiler among apostates 
is incredibly rare. Many other advanced 
technologies, such as shipboard jump drives 
and resurrection chambers, are also very 
difficult to come by and often require a 
Savant or CIST to operate. These difficulties 
mean apostates often have to get what they 
need the old-fashioned way: find it, build it, 
or steal it.
Coalition vessels are regularly attacked, 
though most incidents aren’t especially 
violent. Violence just draws more of 
the Coalition’s attention. Usually pirates 
are happy to get away with whatever 
supplies they can get. Few are particularly 
bloodthirsty; those that are will often be 
dealt with by other apostate forces. 
Officially, the Coalition views all people as 
Coalition citizens. This means that apostates 
can be arrested by Coalition law enforcement 
for not possessing a legal CID. Fortunately, 
it’s not that difficult to purchase a false 
CID that will hold up to cursory inspection. 
These black market CIDs allow apostates 
to move through Coalition space generally 
unmolested as long as they don’t draw 
attention to themselves.
The primary incentive for entering Coalition 
space is making contacts willing to compile 
items in exchange for favors. Because most 
items in Coalition space are compiled, 
products made the old fashion way are 
considered by most Coalition citizens to be 
The Last Great Stand
After the Exodus, Earth’s governments 
collapsed. It was a gradual process, but in 
the end the inability to put together an 
organized plan for recovery resulted in the 
loss of the people’s faith. Not long after, the 
corporations swept in, declared themselves 
a new government, and became the Houses.
Weak and disorganized, the remaining 
Alliance and Federation forces were forced to 
surrender or were destroyed.
But one major engagement stands out: the 
battle of Tellerus Fields, a three week long 
conflict that took place just outside one of 
the largest antimatter production facilities on 
Mercury. 
In the end, the newly founded Coalition 
forces scattered the Alliance and laid siege 
to those who had taken refuge in the power 
plants. Soon after, resigned to their fate, the 
remaining Federation forces blew the plants, 
killing themselves and thousands of Coalition 
soldiers in the process. 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
19
Apostates living outside of Coalition-
controlled space have it easier in some ways, 
but their lives can be far more dangerous.
Working compilers are exceedingly rare 
among apostates, so they must rely on more 
traditional methods for creating the things 
they need.
Apostates generally wear the same clothes 
for years, probably sewn by someone’s kind 
grandmother. Farming, fishing, hunting, 
pottery, carpentry, blacksmithing, and 
even leatherworking are valuable skills in 
environments that can provide the raw 
materials.
When the materials aren’t available, 
though, apostates must depend on trading 
with other enclaves or Coalition citizens. 
Those with a reliable channel for smuggling 
goods in and out of Coalition space can 
live rather well. These communities have 
computers, meds, working ships, and other 
luxuries, but usually live in fear for their 
safety.
In the more developed apostate enclaves, 
such as Sanctuary and Gondolin, safety isn’t 
as much of a concern. There is a bit of a 
frontier lifestyle to be found in such places, 
but they aren’t truly lawless. 
Apostate communities try to govern 
themselves, focusing on local concerns over 
anything far-reaching. Local governments 
spring up where needed, offering leadership 
that acts far more quickly than something as 
labyrinthine as the Coalition’s bureaucracy.
That doesn’t mean apostate governments 
always represent the people’s will, though. 
Some of them may—especially those 
whose leadership is determined by the local 
populace—but many apostate enclaves are 
run by petty dictators, warlords, and would-
be kings.
Almost always, apostates fear each other 
as much as they fear the Coalition. When 
life gets hard, people get desperate—and 
desperate people are dangerous.  
is not yet over. The remnants plot and scheme 
in the shadows of the Coalition’s finest cities 
and in the black depths of uncharted space, 
preparing for their chance to strike.
Remnant forces tend to be an enemy to 
Coalition citizen and apostate alike. To amass 
resources and recruits, many have taken to 
piracy and raiding. When possible, remnants 
take ships and outposts while dealing as 
little damage as possible. Those on board 
are offered the choice of joining the cause or 
stepping outside.
Until recently, the remnant forces have 
been little more than a nuisance to the 
Protectorate. But if rumors are to be 
believed, the Coalition is about to be put to 
the test. 
In some pockets of space, the remnants of 
the Alliance and Federation gather under old 
banners. Unable to tolerate defeat, forgotten 
generals and figureheads rally the troops, 
gathering disheartened apostates into small 
strike forces to ambush Coalition vessels.
With each Coalition ship hijacked or colony 
raided, these remnant forces grow in power. 
They take what weapons and armor they 
can, and often conscript or kill the survivors
The Life of an Apostate
Life for most apostates is one of dystopian 
freedom. While there are some exceptions, 
most apostates live day-to-day struggling to 
get by.
Apostates in Coalition society usually just 
try to evade notice. Many get by with fake 
CIDs, but they rarely hold up to inspection, 
or the checks needed to compile valuable 
goods. 
Some spend their lives slaving for a House 
in hopes of being granted membership 
or slipping through the cracks in society. 
Without a Rep-Rating, they must barter for 
what they need, which often leads them 
into the criminal underworld, where they 
get involved in smuggling and various illegal 
trade circles.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
20
Market Influence
House Cipriani is a very widespread House 
with influence in a huge number of markets. 
They have subsidiaries that deal in just about 
every market, and in the past, this strategy 
has proved both a benefit and a liability.
Whatever they are selling—be it clothes, 
PPCs, vehicles, vacations, or even sleeves—
House Cipriani sells the best, or at least the 
prettiest. They favor quality over quantity 
and form over function, pricing their 
products much higher than the competition 
to play to the elitist market.
The company’s persistent form-over-
function nature has created a secondary 
market for the more reputable citizens of the 
Coalition. For every product they produce, 
there is another that is significantly more 
luxurious—and expensive. Products from 
this niche market generate just as much 
interest as their more humble offerings.
Of note, Cipriani’s higher-end products 
include more secure and protective vehicles 
for the rich and paranoid. Despite this, 
Cipriani has little involvement in military 
manufacturing; all production of armor 
plating and transplasidium is contracted 
out to House Tsarya. This strong, lucrative 
business relationship makes Tsarya one of 
the only Houses to form a tight alliance with 
House Cipriani.
When it comes to business deals, Cipriani 
almost never enters into a contract that 
doesn’t favor them. And they always 
leave themselves reliable escape clauses. 
The House puts a great deal of effort into 
remaining aloof in competing markets, and 
their strong position as the market leader 
in energy means that Cipriani often get to 
call the shots when it comes time to make 
new deals involving power-consuming tech 
devices.
This near-monopoly House Cipriani has over 
the energy market is perhaps the greatest 
point of contention the other Houses have 
with them. Everything requires a power cell 
THE HOUSES EXPANDED
House Cipriani
Primary Influence: Mercury
Secondary Influence: Cygnus Alpha
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Purist
Market Discount: Atmospheric Flying 
Vehicles, Energy (Broadcast Power 
Generators, etc.), CISTs, Transportation
History
House Cipriani, formally known as The 
Cipriani Group, was perhaps the most pivotal 
House in the formation of the Coalition. 
The corporate partnership that eventually 
became House Cipriani was made up of 
three major corporations: the Italian vehicle 
manufacturer Giordino Automotive, Inc., the 
Egyptian clothing company Abbasi Textiles, 
and the Saudi Arabian energy giant Tahan 
Power.
These companies had vast networking 
capabilities and equally immense 
reputations. Their collective assets were 
levied to drive and sell the idea of a unified, 
corporate-controlled, Consociationalist 
government. It was largely through their 
efforts that the idea of solidification gained 
support and eventually ratification, in a way 
that the Earth Unification Act never could.
Today, Cipriani still leverages their founding 
corporations’ strengths, though they’ve 
expanded quite a bit since the Consolidation 
Wars. The House owns and operates the vast 
majority of Mercury’s antimatter production 
through their subsidiaries, Specular 
Spread and Infinity Squared, giving them 
an advantage over all of the other Houses 
in the energy market. In addition to their 
near-monopoly on energy production, they 
are the largest manufacturer of compilers, 
personal vehicles, CIST technology, public 
transportation, and clothing. In addition to 
all of the above, their subsidiary, Icarus, is 
almost solely responsible for interplanetary 
import and export.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
21
Cipriani and Silva’s relationship could best 
be summed up as “partners in crime.” The 
two Houses have no particular love for each 
other, but they do share some business 
ventures and territory. Notably, these include 
the city of Rho on Luna, the Europan research 
station IT Alpha, and the New Turin mining 
colony (before it was largely abandoned 
by the Houses). More importantly, Silva 
is also at odds with Dalianis over their 
superior particle accelerator weapons, and 
unsurprisingly, Cipriani 
often looks for ways to 
exploit this to their 
advantage.
Cipriani is largely 
composed of Purists; 
and as one might expect, 
their members’ beliefs 
often strain relationships 
with some of the more 
transhuman-leaning Houses. This 
is especially true with House Kimura, which 
is not only extremely bio-liberal, but also has 
strong business ties to House Dalianis.
Lately, the two Houses have been butting 
heads, mainly due to Cipriani’s rising 
competition in the virtual vacation industry, 
but also because of Kimura’s interests in CIST 
tech. The current market leader, Kimura’s 
VirtuVac subsidiary, has been aggressively 
defending its interests. So far, though, the 
worst conflicts have been confined to virtual 
environments and fought by Savants and 
CIST wielding agents.
On the other hand, House Cipriani’s 
tendency toward Purist ideals is often found 
attractive by apostates who are looking for 
House membership. The House is typically 
very picky about backing apostates who 
seek membership. It usually requires gaining 
the attention of an influential member and 
paying for patronage through a series of 
favors. But once you get your foot in the 
door, the process of gaining full membership 
is relatively easy compared to some of the 
other Houses.
of some kind, even if it is only to receive 
external power from a broadcast generator. 
Essentially, no matter what technological 
product any other House is manufacturing, 
Cipriani gets a cut.
In the Shadows
No one House is against making shady, 
off-the-books deals to maintain or further 
gain advantages over the other Houses, 
but Cipriani has gained a reputation for 
being especially ruthless 
when it comes to the 
energy market. As 
with all Shadow 
War initiatives, this 
reputation isn’t one 
the general public 
is aware of. Even 
so, it is well earned 
and effective enough 
to keep most potential 
competitors in the energy 
market at bay.
Cipriani’s determination to protect its 
energy interests are matched only by their 
interest in CIST technology. Cipriani spends 
more resources on CIST R&D than any other 
House, and often utilizes CIST tech during 
covert operations.
For the most part, Cipriani’s conflict with 
the other Houses tend to be quickly resolved. 
Despite this, they have maintained a long 
lasting feud with House Dalianis. Prior to the 
Consolidation Wars, Giordino Automotive 
and Keppler Shipyards actively sought 
the wealth of iron deposits beneath the 
surface of Cygnus Alpha. The two companies 
continue to compete for the planet’s 
resources long after the end of the war, but 
it is now driven mostly by ego rather than 
demand. Still, the competition can get ugly 
at times, supercharged by the begrudging 
knowledge that no matter what, Dalianis has 
to rely on Cipriani for their starships’ APEX 
reactors and Cipriani must rely on Dalianis 
ships for transport.

HIDDEN
AGENDAS
22
patience for those who would swim against 
the current.
Low-Rep Cipriani members are strongly 
encouraged by the rest of the House to seek 
a life relatively out of sight. They can usually 
be found working the docks in an Icarus 
Hub or trudging through the dark tunnels of 
Mercury. They are kept out of sight and out 
of mind, safely tucked away where they can’t 
embarrass themselves or the rest of the 
House. Of all the Houses, House Cipriani has 
had the most defectors turn apostate, and 
unsurprisingly, the House makes very little 
effort to recover them: better the lowlifes 
just quietly disappear.
Enforcement
Only House Kimura contributes less to 
the Coalition’s Protectorate than Cipriani. 
Few Cipriani become Centurions or 
Legionnaires. Instead, those with a penchant 
for law enforcement or military action 
usually gravitate toward the House’s own 
enforcement subsidiaries.
The Questers specialize in in-House 
investigations, often related to House Law 
but not always. Usually working in pairs of 
two, Questers are often sent to investigate 
activities that could embarrass the House 
should they ever become publicly known. It’s 
not uncommon for Questers to be directed 
to clean up the mess, hiding the House’s 
transgressions from both the public and 
Coalition investigators. That’s all very hush-
hush, of course, but more than one Centurion 
investigator has gone missing when working 
a case at odds with House Cipriani’s internal 
investigations.
On the other side of the digital divide, 
the group known as Ciphire utilizes CIST 
technology to wage war across the virtual 
environments of the Extranet. Ciphire is not 
officially recognized by House Cipriani, and 
most suspect it to be some sort of newly 
arisen remnant faction. In truth, they are a 
team of specialists trained to infiltrate the 
virtualities operated by House Kimura in 
Organization
All the Houses function as both employer 
and local government for their citizens, 
but most lean one way or the other. 
House Cipriani decidedly leans toward the 
corporate mentality.
Their internal system of government 
comprises two major factions: the Chamber 
and the Sitters.
Every three years, invitations are sent 
to members of House Cipriani with the 
highest Rep-Ratings. The top one hundred 
and eleven, should they accept, become 
Chamberlains.
The Chamberlain is tasked with 
communicating matters of the House to 
the citizens in his or her assigned block 
and with participating in committees. Each 
committee debates and discusses a topic of 
note, determines how to best deal with the 
problem based on the public’s feedback, and 
present their findings to the Sitters.
The Sitters comprise the thirteen highest-
Rep Chamberlains. They are responsible 
for making final decisions and signing the 
collected will of the people, and the wisdom 
of the Chamber, into House law.
Because House Cipriani has the most 
subsidiaries of all the Houses, this 
necessitates a large number of small, hyper-
specialized teams devoted to product 
development and services. These teams 
usually work as contractors, with larger 
subsidiaries pulling together several smaller, 
more specialized, teams to focus on the 
various disciplines required to get the job 
done.
These small subsidiaries are usually 
composed of less than twenty employees, 
who work directly for the subsidiary’s owner 
or owners. These employees make up the 
House’s middle class, comfortably enjoying 
the privileges of citizenship.
As one might expect, however, a House that 
so prides itself on class and style has little 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
23
Dangers
Maintaining a stranglehold on a market will 
earn any business enemies, and Cipriani is 
no different. Coupled with their strong bio-
conservative leanings, the House’s monopoly 
on energy has made it the target of not just 
hostile business practices, but more deadly 
conspiracies as well.
Shaky Ground – House Cipriani can spread 
its branches as far as it does because it enjoys 
a very stable base. The House lives and dies 
because of its hold over the power market, a 
fact it knows well.
Others know it as well, leading certain 
factions to explore alternative energy sources 
that would eliminate their dependence on 
Mars-based antimatter plants.
The campaign arc on pg.  76 describes 
what could be one of many conspiracies to 
create a new device for harnessing power.
Purification – One of the House’s 
recently elected Sitters is a Purifier, who 
has orchestrated a plot to use a team of 
Auxiliaries to plant a CIST-born virus into 
one of House Silva’s largest SIM servers. The 
virus, if deployed, would twist the virtuality 
into some sort of virtual hell and drive every 
SIM hosted there insane.
The Labyrinth  – Someone or something 
is killing workers in the Mercurian tunnels. 
Some believe it to be the work of surviving 
remnant forces, left over from the battle of 
Tellerus Fields. Some whisper of some kind 
of post-human aberration. Whatever hides 
below, it is dismembering the corpses and 
placing the pieces in macabre arrangements.
attempts to gather intel and disrupt or even 
crash the VRs from the inside out.
Of course, House Kimura often sends its 
own agents to do the same in Cipriani’s 
virtualities, forcing Ciphire to go on the 
defensive from time to time.
Ambitions
When looking to hire merc crews or other 
off-the-book operatives, House Cipriani 
will often give preferential treatment to 
Purist apostates because of their shared 
bio-conservative ideals and lack of ties to 
other Houses. They prefer not to deal with 
posthumans or the heavily augmented when 
possible, but will make an exception if they 
are clearly right for the job.
Power Play – House Cipriani fears that 
any day now someone will pull some new 
form of energy production out of the 
Archives. Some rumors even say that has 
already happened and that the person who 
found the technology was silenced by the 
House. Regardless, Cipriani has dedicated 
tremendous resources to combing the 
Archives and monitoring the other Houses to 
make sure the next big thing in power tech 
belongs to Cipriani.
Dark Side of the Moon – Cipriani’s research 
into CIST technology has led it down some 
dark paths. Recently, one of its more liberal 
subsidiaries established a hidden research 
lab on Luna, designated to study the 
potential for creating cyberware capable of 
functioning as CISTs.
Lightning in a Bottle  – One of the House’s 
ailing subsidiaries, Luminance Inc., recently 
received a massive allotment of resources 
to work on some new design pulled from 
the Archives. Now they desperately need 
holographics experts, and they don’t care 
how they get them. Some say they’ve gone 
so far as to secretly fork some Apotheosized 
engineers from old backups.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
24
time that Promethic was able to pull the 
corporations together and pave the way to 
unity. Soon after, the House also absorbed 
Odysseus Station, the Luna-orbiting jump 
gate research facility. Dalianis continues to 
capitalize on this asset to this day by striving 
to improve jump technology, both on ships 
and by optimizing and expanding the jump 
ring network.
Dalianis is no longer the golden economic 
giant that they used to be, but they still do 
quite well for themselves. They are the best 
manufacturer of starships and the proud 
owner of the galaxy’s largest shipyard, 
Ansari Station. Thanks to their military 
origins, the House became the almost-sole 
manufacturer of the main Coalition Fleet. 
Included in this deal was the responsibility 
of manning Tartarus, the Coalition’s isolated 
maximum-security space prison.
Market Influence
Once the dominant corporate force on 
Earth, House Dalianis now struggles to 
reclaim its lost glory. While the House 
remains a notable contender in the robotics 
and small-arms markets, Dalianis’ primary 
focus is starship production. Ansari Station, 
owned and operated by House Dalianis, 
produces a sizable majority of all ships in 
active use today.
In tandem with their ship production efforts, 
House Dalianis allocates much of their 
resources to researching and developing 
new jump-gate technologies. Odysseus 
Station houses several large teams devoted 
to sifting through Mimir’s Archives in hopes 
of digging up some way to make the jump 
gates both more power-efficient and more 
accurate with in-system placement.
Shortly after the creation of the Coalition, 
Dalianis made a deal with Kimura. In 
exchange for agreeing to buy the majority 
of their ships’ computer systems from them, 
Kimura would back off of the military drone 
market and focus their efforts on civilian 
use. This freed Dalianis to make fighter and 
House Dalianis
Primary Influence: Olympus
Secondary Influence: Luna
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Purist
Market Discount: Starships, Rail/Coil Guns, 
Combat Drones
History
Dalianis Interplanetary used to be the 
most economically powerful corporate 
partnership on Earth, especially during the 
Consolidation Wars. The partnership was 
an Alliance military effort, founded by the 
three best European defense contractors, all 
brought together by Greek scientists.
The German-owned Keppler Shipyards was 
the hottest name in starship manufacturing 
at the time, while British-owned Macrotech 
Robotics supplied maintenance staff and 
combat drones, and the French-owned 
Habarcq Armaments equipped both with 
weapons. Promethic Technologies, Greece’s 
massive research and development firm, 
contracted the services of their many 
thousands of Mimir-tech scientists to all 
three corporations. Together, they instigated 
the merger that would one day result in the 
founding of House Dalianis.
Through Promethic’s scientific achieve-
ments, the three military contractors were 
elevated to economic prominence; thus, so 
was Promethic. This partnership’s golden 
period lasted for several years, until new 
technologies took hold. With Tahan Power’s 
creation of APEX reactors, Keppler had to 
cut their profits to acquire the devices for 
their starships. Likewise, Habarcq began to 
lose out when Valkyrie cornered the market 
on particle acceleration weapons. Finally, 
Hiske Electronics rose up to become a much 
larger and cheaper manufacturer of drones, 
reducing Macrotech’s hold on the market.
When it came time for the Exodus, Keppler 
Shipyards went out of their way to provide 
evacuation assistance for Promethic 
Technologies. And it was during this 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
25
Dalianis seeks to rectify this, often through 
particularly “straightforward” methods.
Political maneuvering can only get the 
House so far in its ambitions, though. They 
are more than willing to apply the stick when 
the carrot fails by deploying their Knights or 
other more plausibly deniable assets. Still, 
the House as a whole prefers to stay out of 
direct conflict. More often than not, they are 
not the ones to initiate inter-House conflicts. 
Hostile action against them is more 
likely to be met with retaliation 
politically than with further 
violence.
Despite their alliances with 
Jinzhan and Kimura, Dalianis 
has issues with most of 
the other Houses. Cipriani, 
obviously, is a major sore 
spot because of their energy 
monopoly. But that’s not the only 
reason. During the Consolidation 
Wars, shared control over Cygnus 
Alpha’s iron supplies caused many a public 
incident, and though the iron is not so 
crucial now, it remains a point of contention. 
Similarly, Dalianis has green eyes for volatile 
materials in the Tsarya-owned Ceres ice 
fields, which Tsarya refuses to relinquish.
Silva, though, is probably Dalianis’ 
worst enemy, as the two are in constant 
competition over the arms industry. Silva’s 
PAc weapons have drastically reduced 
the market dominance Dalianis had been 
enjoying because of their railgun and coil 
gun tech. Now Silva is constantly striving 
to increase PAc efficiency in environments 
without air, while Dalianis matches Silva’s 
efforts by aiding Tsarya in creating more 
beam-resistant armor. This back-and-forth 
has gone on for some time; each time one 
company beats out the other, the other 
comes out with a competing improvement.
combat drones with almost no competition. 
This trade agreement fostered strong ties 
between the two corporations, culminating 
in a lasting alliance between them.
Another benefit of the post-Exodus state of 
the human race was the positioning of Jinzhan 
as Dalianis’ most frequent and favorite 
customer. With Jinzhan’s determined focus 
on maintaining the Earth blockade, they 
have constant demand for ships, drones, and 
kill-sats. This is the source of Dalianis’ 
only other lasting trade alliance, 
wherein they “generously” 
provide their products 
for the quarantine effort 
in exchange for access to 
Jinzhan’s, especially the 
much prized and tightly 
controlled Vulcan swarms.
Dalianis is by far the most 
expansionist of the Houses, 
which is why they prize Vulcan 
swarms so highly. Physically, they are 
already the most spread out, maintaining 
influence on most Coalition colonies. 
Dalianis leadership wants to expand human 
colonization even further, though, for two 
reasons. As a military organization, they 
recognize the threat that Earth still poses, 
and wants humanity to have the greatest 
chance possible of surviving should the 
technophage get loose. As a corporation, 
expansion benefits them greatly; a more 
spread out Coalition means more ships and 
jump rings will be needed.
In the Shadows
Politically, Dalianis focuses less on Shadow 
War activities and more on trying to gain 
public and legitimate power. To lubricate 
the bureaucratic gears preventing them 
from colonizing in any official capacity, 
Dalianis has been focusing their efforts on 
gaining influence in Olympus. Though the 
House already has a tremendous amount 
of influence over the city, they do not 
have control over the seat of power itself. 

HIDDEN
AGENDAS
26
Recently, the competition has escalated 
from friendly to bloody. Of House Dalianis’ 
baronies, Habarcq is the most active in the 
Shadow War, actively utilizing Auxiliaries to 
undermine Valkyrie’s R&D efforts.
The Promethic Collective – Originally an 
R&D firm, Promethic’s post-Exodus role is 
to facilitate cooperation and information 
sharing between the Dalianis baronies.
While the baronies focus on their own 
pursuits, the Collective works to promote 
synergy and efficiency among them. And 
when dealing with other Houses, the 
Collective represents the other baronies 
under the banner of House Dalianis. The 
Collective is also responsible for the House’s 
internal law enforcement, as well as other 
infrastructure concerns.
All citizens of House Dalianis fall under one 
of the baronies or the Promethic Collective. 
Each main political body consists of several 
subsidiaries. And like the other Houses, 
Dalianis tends to dabble to some degree in 
just about every market. While they may 
specialize in ships, drones, and guns, they 
also fare well in shoes, furniture, publishing, 
tools, and markets related to gravitics 
technology.
House Dalianis’ internal organization seems 
nostalgic, striving to emulate simpler times. 
Those with high Rep (8–9) are granted the 
title of lord or lady, and those of even higher 
Rep (10–11) are called high lords and ladies.
Among the baronies, high lords are often 
called barons or baronesses. Within the 
Promethic Collective, they are called dukes 
or duchesses.
These titles grant certain privileges 
within the confines of the House. Dalianis 
“commoners” are expected to bow or curtsy, 
and they are expected to defer to Dalianis 
nobility before high-Rep members of other 
Houses.
Dalianis is mostly Purist, but this holds 
little bearing on their interactions with 
other entities. The Kimuran alliance in 
Organization
Much as it was before the Exodus, House 
Dalianis essentially consists of three major 
political bodies. Now called the baronies—
the Barony of Keppler, the Barony of 
Macrotech, and the Barony of Habarcq—
they collectively contain all House Dalianis 
subsidiaries, save one: the Promethic 
Collective.
Barony of Keppler – The first and most 
prolific commercial starship manufacturer, 
the Barony of Keppler is now the most 
powerful of the baronies. It leads the way 
in both starship design and the push to fuel 
ambitions of colonization.
It is also the barony most responsible for the 
conflict over Cygnus Alpha. In recent days 
Keppler has found it increasingly difficult 
to convince the other baronies that Cygnus 
Alpha is worth fighting for. And were it not for 
a few favors from the Promethic Collective, 
Cygnus Alpha would almost certainly be in 
Cipriani hands by now.
Barony of Macrotech – Known for its 
advanced robotics research, specifically in 
autonomous combat drones, the Barony 
of Macrotech remains the second most 
influential barony.
More and more, the Houses are removing 
the human element from hazardous and 
monotonous working environments. And 
with the recent success of the Ardent LS-7 
“Lonestar” even the Coalition’s Centurion 
forces are in danger of being replaced by 
machines.
Barony of Habarcq – The French arms 
manufacturer Habarcq Armaments was the 
first to market a reliable railgun, and have 
kept hold of their market dominance since 
the Exodus.
Today, Habarcq is facing stiff competition 
from Valkyrie Interplanetary, a subsidiary of 
House Silva. The arms race is on, as Habarcq 
pits its kinetic weaponry against Valkyrie’s 
more sophisticated particle accelerator 
technology.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
27
Deal with the Devil – Houses Dalianis and 
Tsarya have had a bumpy relationship for 
years, but now it looks like Dalianis is cashing 
in all of its favors.
Tsarya has little interest in colonization, but 
has agreed to vote in favor of a massive new 
survey and exploration proposal if Dalianis 
can give them what they want… a large-scale 
armed conflict.
Buried Treasure – An agent working for the 
Barony of Macrotech recently uncovered the 
location of a research facility dedicated to 
Vulcan swarm research. Only one problem: it 
is on Earth, buried in the remains of Beijing.
Dangers
While their efforts might be less violent and 
more economic and lobbyist, Dalianis is still 
a target of hostilities from the other Houses 
from time to time. Their expansionist attitude 
often put them at odds with apostates who 
have already colonized the areas Dalianis is 
attempting to move into, as well.
Wolf in Sheep’s Clothing  – Ansari Station 
has been harried by a string of murders. 
The victims were killed to cover up the theft  
of an unknown number of override codes, 
codes that the House had previously denied 
existed. These codes can grant total control 
of a ship—a powerful tool in the right hands.
Thus far, the House has managed to cover 
up the murders, fearing the consequences 
should the details leek.
Conflicting Interests – The Talons of 
Freedom raided a joint-barony research 
outpost in the Kuiper Belt. Keppler deployed 
Knights; Habarcq deployed Lighthouse. 
Conflicting orders and confusion resulted in 
deaths on both sides.
The Collective is furious that it wasn’t 
consulted first—and worse, it has 
discovered evidence that the baronies’ lack 
of communication might not have been 
accidental.
particular indicates Dalianis’ willingness to 
compromise. This willingness holds true for 
the House’s interactions on an individual 
level as well. The House hierarchy is 
increasingly regressing to a feudal structure, 
and respects the ability to produce results 
above political concerns. In light of this, a 
crew of posthumans could obtain backing, 
membership, and a higher station than the 
most vocal Purist.
Enforcement
House Dalianis’ internal law enforcement 
is handled by the Knights Dalianis, a select 
group of operators granted the authority to 
seek out and punish criminals.
The Knights function much like Praetorians, 
but are not recognized by the Coalition 
government. As such, they must operate 
much like Auxiliaries. The House discreetly 
provides them with what they need to 
accomplish their goals, and actively helps 
cover their indiscretions.
Beyond the Knights, House Dalianis relies 
on Lighthouse, one of its own subsidiaries, 
for private security.
Ambitions
Dalianis has slowly been gearing up for their 
new wave of expansion in several ways, most 
of them less-than-subtle. Lately, they have 
been moving in on apostate and remnant 
territory under the guise of “exploratory 
R&D.” In reality, they have been claiming 
said territory as their own, and laying the 
groundwork for future colonization. Any 
resistance is met with force by Dalianis’ 
security subsidiary, Lighthouse.
Desperate Measures – The Barony of 
Keppler knows its window of opportunity 
to seize Cygnus Alpha is closing quickly, so it 
plans to make one last push.
A long time has passed since House Dalianis 
last resorted to violence against House 
Cipriani, but Barron Nikos Varga is planning 
to hit Cipriani mining crews with a contingent 
of Knights posing as pirates.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
28
Though they currently still take part in 
business and political dealings with other 
Houses, unnecessary interaction is limited. 
The House all but refuses to acknowledge 
the existence of apostates in any official 
capacity, and makes it nearly impossible for 
apostates to attain membership. Interference 
by apostates in Jinzhan affairs is usually dealt 
with swiftly and often violently, so apostates 
tend to try their best to stay out of House 
Jinzhan’s way.
Market Influence
House Jinzhan is involved in more markets 
than any other House, but dominates 
fewer. It has made a name for itself in the 
necessities, cheap utilitarian goods to be 
used and discarded. Their products range 
from simple tools to basic household goods 
to standard survival gear. Jinzhan designs 
are rarely inspired, but the templates are 
cheap and use elements that are often quite 
abundant.
When the technophage was first released, 
it devastated Jinzhan groundside factories, 
facilities, and personnel. This resulted in an 
overall reduction in their market dominance, 
leaving Jinzhan too weak to reestablish itself 
as a vast monopoly. Other corporations 
quickly swept in to secure markets Jinzhan 
was now too weak to hold. Despite this, 
Jinzhan was still able to maintain dominance 
over the construction, food, survival supplies, 
explosives, and security technologies and 
service markets: All markets they knew 
would be critical after the fall of Earth.
The House has a formidable weapons 
program. Though Silva and Dalianis are the 
respective leading developers of particle 
acceleration and kinetic weapons tech, 
Jinzhan has made a name for themselves by 
upscaling these technologies and applying 
them to vehicles. Jinzhan is also the main 
provider of explosive weapons, both on 
personal and vehicle scales.
In addition to all of this, Jinzhan has 
one other specialty: security technology, 
House Jinzhan
Primary Influence: Shouye
Secondary Influence: Earth Quarantine
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Purist
Market Discount: Construction, Security 
Technology & Services, Food, Explosives, 
Ship & Vehicle Weaponry
History
Jinzhan Developments is a rather unique 
House in that they are not comprised 
of several pre-Coalition corporations. 
China never truly transitioned from their 
communist government, and had been 
moving toward imperialism.
Pre-Exodus, Jinzhan Developments was the 
Chinese government’s pet megacorporation. 
The company monopolized almost all of 
China’s needs, both civilian and military, 
keeping the money flow heading steadily up 
the chain. Had China not been hit so hard 
by the technophage, some speculate that 
they might have made a move for complete 
control of humanity’s remnants.
When the technophage ravaged China, 
the capital was one of the first cities to fall. 
The leadership collapsed, and an already-
struggling military faltered and failed. 
Jinzhan took up the fallen mantle, hired the 
surviving Chinese military personnel, and 
ordered their new army of mercenaries to 
protect their evacuating contractors. To 
date, it is the largest mercenary operation 
ever performed, and many of the surviving 
mercenaries subsequently entered Legion 
or Protectorate service under Jinzhan 
membership.
As much an evolution of the Chinese 
government as a conglomeration of corporate 
entities, House Jinzhan grows more isolated 
with each passing year. Shouye is the heart 
of the House, a verdant garden world rich in 
resources and arable land. And as one might 
expect, the House is extremely protective of 
its new home.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
29
compiled blandness that defaulters and ship 
crews eat, and as such comes at a premium. 
Apostates in particular seek to acquire these 
goods, since they generally have no way of 
compiling food of their own. As a result, 
food from Shouye has become very popular 
on the black market.
The Earth quarantine forces consist 
almost entirely of Jinzhan equipment 
and personnel, and it is their 
zealous enforcement of the 
blockade that is the source 
of the alliance between 
Dalianis and Jinzhan. 
Ships and equipment 
needed to maintain 
the quarantine mostly 
come from Dalianis 
production facilities, but 
most of the other R&D that 
goes into the effort is handled 
by Jinzhan themselves at Primatech 
Labs in orbit around Earth.
In the Shadows
Each of the Houses that comprise the 
Coalition strives to maintain a unique 
identity, but none more so than House 
Jinzhan. Jinzhan was the last of the Houses 
to join the Coalition, and many suspect it 
may be the first to leave.
Jinzhan is often at odds with the other 
Houses. While these differences have not 
yet escalated into violence, some fear it is 
possible—even inevitable.
The House aggressively gathers and 
consolidates resources to ensure its 
independence. This desire surfaces as 
cutthroat negotiations and the occasional 
threat, but the House hides much from 
the public eye: kidnappings, blackmail, 
and assassinations of Coalition citizens. 
Apostates who cross the House are afforded 
even less mercy.
Jinzhan’s activity in the Shadow War are still 
rather minimal, especially when compared 
software, and services. They have entire 
subsidiaries devoted to these markets, 
including a security contractor firm named 
Guardian, comprised largely of pre-Exodus 
mercenaries that weren’t interested in 
serving in the Legion. Unlike Lighthouse, 
Guardian has a reputation for their reliability 
and by-the-book ethics. Guardian, like 
the rest of House Jinzhan, tends to 
have very Purist-leaning ideals. 
As such, Guardian personnel 
have been known to 
overreact when faced 
with heavily augmented 
or posthuman 
opposition.
While the House’s 
domestic goods garner 
little excitement from 
Coalition citizens, Jinzhan 
controls two resources that 
members of every House desire.
Ironically, the same technology that 
created the technophage also made 
Vulcan swarms possible. And it is these 
swarms that allowed for the rapid creation 
of livable habitats: a critical necessity during 
the Exodus. These days, however, Jinzhan 
rarely uses the Vulcan swarms, and the other 
Houses have to negotiate long and hard to 
get their hands on one.
The creation of the swarms is perhaps House 
Jinzhan’s most closely guarded secret. In the 
past the House traded swarms for resources 
from the other Houses, but more and more 
the House refuses to trade the swarms. The 
need for more living space isn’t that great, 
and Jinzhan greatly fears the misuse of their 
swarm technology.
Today, Jinzhan’s most lucrative product is 
their food. Shouye, Jinzhan’s capital planet, 
is the only world in the Coalition capable 
of reliably producing food naturally and in 
bulk. This garden planet provides a large 
percentage of the Coalition’s produce and 
prepared food. It tastes far better than the 

HIDDEN
AGENDAS
30
subsidiaries and the citizens employed by 
them.
The majority of House Jinzhan’s citizens live 
and work on Shouye. The House has greater 
numbers than most and actively incentivizes 
natural procreation. Cloning as a way to have 
children is discouraged within the House.
To most within House Jinzhan, technology 
is viewed more as a means of destruction 
than salvation: It was the failing of humanity 
that resulted in the destruction of Earth. Still, 
people must place their faith in something.
This has led to a rise in religion within the 
House, with traditional Buddhism becoming 
the most popular. Coalition studies suggest 
this particular religion is popular for its belief 
in rebirth, allowing people to cope with the 
guilt and tragedy of the technophage.
Jinzhan’s growing distrust of technology is 
primarily aimed at augmentation, advanced 
AI, and nanotech. Perhaps this is because it 
was they that created the technophage and 
loosed it on the Earth. And perhaps they fear 
making such a horrible mistake again.
Enforcement
Like the other Houses, House Jinzhan has 
its own internal law enforcement. But it also 
has a standing army, something the other 
Houses of the Coalition are more than a little 
uncomfortable with.
The Discipline Committee, also known 
as the Inspectorate, handles House law 
enforcement. Inspectors have the power to 
go anywhere and search anything, so long as 
the property is owned by a Jinzhan citizen.
Jinzhan’s military is called the People’s 
Guardian, or PG. Mostly comprised of former 
Chinese military turned mercenary, the PG 
now serves two roles.
The first is Jinzhan’s defensive force, usually 
referred to as the Shield. The Guardian’s 
Shield serves to protect Jinzhan’s interests, 
particularly on Shouye or other important 
Jinzhan settlements. It also functions as 
Jinzhan’s personal navy.
to House Silva or Cipriani. On the whole, the 
House is content to keep to itself and protect 
its own, only really lashing out against those 
who would disturb them. This is seen best 
in their almost xenophobic lockdown of 
Shouye.
Visiting the garden can be a bureaucratic 
nightmare, and it can actually be easier and 
cheaper to simply try to slip in unnoticed. 
It’s still a risky venture, though. Jinzhan 
authorities do not react well to such activity.
Given Jinzhan’s attitude toward apostates, 
they often refuse to hire crews with apostate 
members. The House seems to prefer 
experienced mercs, which is attributed to 
their role in the Exodus. This is also probably 
due to the fact that when Jinzhan bothers to 
engage in the Shadow War, it is usually for 
the purposes of acquiring or eliminating a 
specific target.
It is because of these tendencies, in fact, 
that Jinzhan involvement is suspected in the 
recent Odysseus Station incident.
Organization
House Jinzhan’s leadership is a pyramid 
with a wide base. Unlike in the other 
Houses, a Jinzhan citizen’s Rep-Rating has 
little influence on his or her position. Jinzhan 
tradition holds that a good leader need not 
be liked, only respected. The House places 
far more importance on past successes than 
popularity.
At the top is the Directorate Committee. 
This group is composed of the highest-
ranking members of the pre-Exodus Jinzhan 
Developments as well as China’s now-
defunct Standing Committee and Politburo. 
The Directorate Committee consists of 
twenty-five members, called upon to vote on 
the major issues facing the House.
Beneath the Directorate Committee is the 
Secretariat Committee. Its 333 members 
make up dozens of smaller committees 
formed to direct the administration of 
the House’s affairs. The Secretariat’s sub-
committees preside over the House’ 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
31
Dangers
Jinzhan may stay out of the Shadow War for 
the most part, but that doesn’t mean they 
aren’t targeted. More likely than another 
House striking out against Jinzhan are the 
various groups of apostates looking to obtain 
valuable food and the ever coveted Vulcan 
swarms. Beyond those possibilities, Shouye 
itself presents its own challenges.
A Purer Tomorrow – House Jinzhan 
supports the Humanity Preservation Act 
more than any other House. Despite this 
stance, acceptance of augmentation tech 
continues to spread.
Zheng Xiaodan, a Purifier and member of 
the Directorate Committee, is conspiring to 
assassinate several outspoken opponents of 
the HPA. While the vast majority of House 
Jinzhan are purists, few are willing to go to 
such extremes. This assassination, should it 
occur and be traceable back to the House, 
could be incredibly damaging to already 
strained relations between House Kimura 
and Silva.
Bug Hunt – The enormous and aggressive 
insects of Shouye are at once a source of 
irritation and pride for the House. But for 
several remote villages, they’ve become a 
terror. A dragonspider queen has decided 
to nest in an old starship graveyard, and her 
young have become a real problem.
Gate Crash – Several bombs were recently 
discovered hidden in various places on the 
jump ring that connects Shouye to the rest 
of the network. It was reported, but the 
incident was never spoken of again. Jinzhan 
officials fear that someone may be planning 
to disable the ring, leaving Shouye cut off  
from the rest of Coalition space. But who 
would do this, and to what end?
The other part, the Spear, protects high-
ranking Jinzhan officials and assets outside of 
Shouye. On occasion, it’s hired out to other 
members or subsidiaries of other Houses to 
serve as private security.
While Jinzhan-controlled areas are still 
covered with meshes, the Monitors charged 
with watching over them are Beta AIs instead 
of Gamma AIs. Thus, Jinzhan-controlled 
meshes aren’t nearly as secure as others, 
but the House supplements with far more 
human security personnel. In general, the 
mesh rating (pg.  41) of Jinzhan operated 
locations is one step below what you might 
normally find in Coalition controlled space.
Ambitions
Jinzhan’s role in the creation of the 
technophage has led to a desire to destroy 
Earth once and for all, to erase the memory 
of its fall, and to destroy the technophage 
entirely. 
Few realize just how much of the House’s 
resources go toward researching potential 
methods or weapons suitable for destroying 
whole planets. They also have a Purist 
philosophy that borders on the phobic, 
leading them to more... drastic measures to 
slow the artificial evolution of humanity.
Operation Black Gate – Engineers within the 
House believe they have discovered a way to 
utilize jump-gate and gravitics technology to 
create a tiny black hole. They want to use it 
on Earth, but first they need to successfully 
test the technology.
War Machines - House Jinzhan prepares for 
war. Whether it occurs now, or sometime 
in the future, House Jinzhan intends to be 
ready.
They have begun using Auxiliaries to pose 
as independent interests, or as brokers for 
other Houses, in an effort to acquire and/or 
commission the building of massive starships 
from House Dalianis, large numbers of 
combat frames from House Kimura, and 
have begun ramping up production of their 
own brand of coil guns for their soldiers.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
32
This joint venture between the companies 
eventually resulted in the formation of 
Kimura Ascendant, a shared subsidiary 
dedicated to advancing technologies related 
to transhuman advancement. Kimura 
Ascendant led the way in technological 
innovation, leading to new ways of producing 
agents, augmentations, sleeves, and drones 
more cheaply and efficiently than the than 
the competition, all without sacrificing any of 
the quality the two companies had become 
known for. Of particular note was Kimura’s 
work was on SIMs, and methods to integrate 
them into society by better utilizing AR 
interface devices and mesh sensor networks. 
It is this work that made life as a SIM a viable 
option, and ushered in one of the largest 
leaps in transhuman evolution.
Kimura’s work was just starting to bear 
fruit when the technophage was released, 
sidelining all efforts save survival. But the 
research already completed by Kimura 
proved invaluable during the Exodus. As 
many as half of the citizens that would later 
come together under the sigil of House 
Kimura were uploaded to safety as SIMs.
Market Influence
Like the other Houses, Kimura has their 
hands in just about every market. Even 
though its subsidiaries work to diversify 
the House, Kimura still diverts most of its 
resources to a few target markets. They 
remain to this day the premier manufacturer 
of all forms of computer equipment, software 
(including Agents), cybersleeves, cyberware 
augmentations, and civilian drones.
Kimura has a strong relationship with 
Dalianis thanks to the purchase of Kimuran 
computer equipment for Dalianis starships. 
Kimura has agreed to cut them a deal so 
long as Dalianis stays out of the civilian 
drone market. But much to Dalianis’ chagrin, 
Kimura has a similar alliance with Silva, who 
has quietly been trying to ramp up their 
starship production to more effectively 
compete with Dalianis.
House Kimura
Primary Influence: Chengdan
Secondary Influence: Olympus
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Transhuman
Market Discount: Agents, Computers & 
Computer Software, Cybersleeves, Cybernetic 
Augmentations, Virtuality Software, Light 
Combat Frames
History
Japan was one of the last major powers 
to choose sides in the Consolidation Wars. 
Eventually it fell in with the Alliance, but not 
before exploiting both sides for as long as 
possible.
The two most influential Japanese and 
South Korean corporations, Aria Softworks 
from Japan and Hiske Electronics from South 
Korean, were the seeds from which House 
Kimura sprouted. Peddling their wares to 
both sides, the two companies continued 
growing their vast fortunes by becoming 
the primary contractors of hardware and 
software for various private military forces.
Unlike the other Houses, the two companies 
that combined to become House Kimura 
were actually in fierce competition until the 
formation of the Coalition. Together, the 
corporations held the top two positions in 
their market, and did so while in constant 
competition with one another. The only 
reason neither gained a full advantage was 
because, while Aria’s software was superior 
to Hiske’s, Hiske’s hardware tended to be 
faster and more reliable than Aria’s. This 
resulted in intense corporate espionage 
between the two companies, a sort of proto-
Shadow War, long before the foundation of 
the Houses.
But when talks of global unification began, 
both sides realized that future competition 
could be better faced, and more easily 
dominated, if the two tech-giants combined 
their strengths. In doing so, resources that 
were previously dedicated to competing with 
each other were redirected to expanding 
both company’s market interests. 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
33
who could provide on-site assistance much 
more efficiently and quickly than a person in 
the physical world ever could.
Since the incorporation of SIM employees, 
Kimura has found a cornucopia of uses for 
them, and now employs far more SIMs than 
any other House. SIMs play a major role in 
software development and testing from the 
get-go, rather than just maintenance and 
customer support. But what few people 
know is that they employ a massive spy 
network composed of hundreds of SIMs, all 
assigned to keep tabs on the other Houses.
In the Shadows
History suggests that 
the roots of the Shadow 
War took hold during 
the height of the 
Consolidation Wars, 
as Aria and Hiske 
infiltrated rival and allied 
companies, pitting their 
contractors and clients 
against each other to 
weaken them. Spying, arson, assassination, 
blackmail, bribery… by the end, both 
corporations had very dirty hands indeed. 
But they prized discretion above all. Hiske 
and Aria both stood on a foundation of shaky 
morals and greed, and both wanted to keep 
their skeletons locked behind a thick vault 
door.
For the most part, they were successful. 
Even today, few people outside the higher-
ranking members of House Kimura know just 
how low Hiske and Aria stooped to protect 
their dominance.
The seeds of corruption had been planted, 
however. Aria and Hiske had contacts and 
allies within every major corporation on 
Earth, a great many heavily involved in illicit 
deals. As those companies continued to 
grow and merge into what would become 
the Houses, the nefarious tactics of Aria and 
Hiske set the stage for the Shadow War.
In addition to their other interests, Kimura 
is also a strong contender in the combat 
frame market, putting themselves into direct 
competition with House Tsarya. Interestingly, 
Kimura was the progenitor of the market, as 
Aria Softworks invented war frames during 
the Consolidation Wars. Tsarya didn’t come 
into the picture until after the formation of 
the Coalition. Lately, this competition has 
ramped up to ferocious heights, topping that 
of Aria and Hiske’s pre-Coalition levels.
Both Kimura and Tsarya produce top 
quality war frames, but they have different 
specialties. Tsarya excels at creating huge, 
heavily armed and armored tank-like assault 
war frames. Kimura, on the other hand, 
specializes in lighter, more agile recon 
war frames, which also feature better 
sensors systems.
Kimura’s subsidiary, VirtuVac, 
is currently number one 
in the creation of 
both persistent and 
temporary virtual 
environments, including many degenerate 
and sometimes illicit ones. But in the past 
few years, House Cipriani has begun making 
moves in this market as well. As virtualities 
have insanely low cost-to-profit ratios, 
Kimura has treated this encroachment with 
uncharacteristic hostility.
Due to the high quality of Kimura’s 
equipment and software, it is built into a large 
percentage of the Coalition’s electronics. 
This high percentage of market saturation 
initially created a small customer service 
issue: there were too many devices and not 
enough employees to provide support. This 
problem was solved in two ways. The first 
was through standardized implementation 
of backdoors into the House’s software that 
would allow technicians to gain easy remote 
access to the devices. The second became 
possible when Kimura successfully lobbied 
to do away with the HPA’s restrictions on 
hiring SIMs.  Once the restriction went away, 
house Kimura bean openly recruiting SIMs 

HIDDEN
AGENDAS
34
The House’s internal politics are very 
simple in concept, but a bit more complex in 
practice. The Rep system was devised as an 
attempt to quantify the value of a person to 
society. Kimurans tend to respect the spirit 
of the system and believe in it, so citizens are 
expected to obey those with higher Rep.
Many Kimurans extend this tradition of 
respect to members of other Houses, though 
generally treating them as if their Rep-Rating 
were a few points lower.
In House Kimura, abusing one’s position is 
a problem that tends to self-correct. Bullies 
and those who take advantage of their 
lower-rated compatriots tend to find their 
own Rep-Ratings dwindling quickly.
House Kimura has two internal political 
bodies. The first is the Board of Governance. 
This group is made up of seven of the 
highest-rated individuals in the House. Each 
member of the Board, called a Shogun, is 
responsible for seven Daimyo, who head the 
subsidiaries that direct the day-to-day affairs 
of the House.
The second body, the Board of Relations, 
acts as the official liaison between House 
Kimura and the other Houses. Like the Board 
of Governance, the Board of Relations seats 
seven Shogun, each with seven Daimyo who 
act as ambassadors.
Any Shogun or Daimyo can be replaced 
by another member of the House simply 
by asking. The only condition is that the 
requester must have a higher Rep-Rating 
than the Shogun or Daimyo he or she wishes 
to replace. Of course, this request—or, at 
times, command—can easily reflect badly on 
the person giving the order, so it is not done 
lightly or often.
Enforcement
Generally, each Daimyo is served by no 
more than seven Samurai. In exchange for 
swearing oaths of fealty, honor, and loyalty 
to the House, the Samurai operate outside 
the Rep-based hierarchy of the House. They 
Though the two companies had schemed 
against each other, they soon came into 
conflict with other major corporations who 
were starting to use those same tactics. This 
is one of the major factors that drove Aria 
and Hiske together, consolidating them into 
a united front against common foes.
Prior to the technophage, Aria Softworks 
had strong ties to the Yakuza, who paid 
Aria handsomely to provide evacuation 
assistance during the Exodus. Since then 
the Yakuza has evolved into the Red Sun and 
shifted its loyalty to House Kimura. Any time 
Kimura needs something done off the books, 
particularly violent things they don’t want 
to sully their pacifist hands with, the Red 
Sun gets it done. In exchange, Kimura, who 
otherwise has a rather harsh zero-tolerance 
policy toward crime, turns a blind eye to the 
Red Sun’s day-to-day activities.
In general, this means that Auxiliary 
crews working for Kimura rarely deal with 
Kimura directly. Anything pertaining to the 
Shadow War, as well as any other seedy 
job, is handled by Red Sun representatives 
through a shell subsidiary called Crimson & 
Sons. Regardless of the nature of the job, 
Kimura prefers to hire transhumans, or those 
affiliated with Red Sun in some way—being 
both is even better. Most Purists are treated 
with suspicion and distrust, as Kimura fears 
they might be Cipriani spies.
Organization
House Kimura is a House of apparent 
contradictions and strange dichotomies, 
often making it difficult for members of other 
Houses to grasp the nuances of Kimuran 
culture.
Kimura’s system of self-governance is 
one of both extreme democracy and rigid 
hierarchy. More than any other House, 
Kimura has embraced the Coalition’s Rep-
Rating system. In fact, Kimura was the House 
most instrumental in the events leading up 
to InterRep’s creation.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
35
Thinning the Competition – Katsumi 
Yoshida (aka Obsidian), a Daimyo on the 
Board of Relations, plans to send Scarlet—
one of her Samurai and a secret, illegal fork 
of herself—to assassinate one of the HPA’s 
most popular supporters, a purist Senator 
from House Cipriani by the name of Matteo 
Morreti.
Red Sunrise – The Red Sun is moving into 
the unused sections of Asola, preying on 
the disillusioned apostates working to gain 
Tsaryan citizenship. To sabotage Tsarya’s war 
frame production, the Suns have begun to 
sow dissent and bolster the black market.
Dangers
Recently, as Cipriani has gained ground in the 
VR market, the two have taken to sabotaging 
each other’s virtual environments. These 
attacks are done from the inside by sending 
hackers into the VR to destabilize it using 
CISTs and Savant Programs. Both Houses 
publicly deny this of course, usually while 
still trying to place the blame for crashes and 
the like on the other House.
The Next Great Chicago Fire – House 
Cipriani is planning to loose several small 
Ciphire strike teams on Chicago. They’re 
attempting to orchestrate a chain of strategic 
explosions in an effort to set the entire 
virtual city aflame.
Forking Lawyers – Primarily composed of 
Astralists, the Diamond Lotus is one of House 
Kimura’s premiere law firms. Known for their 
impartial rulings and serene demeanor, the 
Lotus has been called upon by members of 
every House. Recently, a ship transporting 
three Lotus Arbiters, all SIMs, was boarded 
by unknown assailants. It turned up again 
a week later, its crew dead. The ship’s logs 
show that someone copied the Arbiter’s 
egos. But who? And what secrets could they 
learn by interrogation—or torture?
are required to obey only their Daimyo or 
the Shogun their Daimyo serves.
Samurai serving a Daimyo of the Board 
of Governance tend to focus on internal 
investigation and House law enforcement.
Samurai serving a Daimyo of the Board 
of Relations generally focus on personally 
protecting their Daimyo. These Samurai 
usually lead a small security team and often 
have access to one of the House’s premiere 
recon war frames.
The Samurai and their war frames 
have become popular in the media and 
prodexes. Their duty and exploits are often 
romanticized and exaggerated, but House 
Kimura enjoys the positive attention.
However, like other titles in House internal 
law enforcement, the position of Samurai is 
not recognized in Coalition law. A Samurai 
refusing to obey a Coalition official would be 
punished the same as any other citizen.
House Kimura contributes fewer members 
to the Protectorate than any other House. 
Projecting a largely pacifist position, they 
claim to use force only when required for 
self-preservation.
It is convenient then that the House 
maintains close ties with the Red Sun. The 
Red Sun serves as House Kimura’s hidden 
blade and liaison to its Shadow War agents. 
It serves as a buffer of plausible deniability, 
allowing House Kimura to aggressively 
engage in Shadow War activities without 
fear of being uncovered.
Ambitions
Politically, House Kimura is extremely 
liberal and does not support the Humanity 
Preservation Act in any shape or form. 
Despite this, they—for the most part—
prefer to avoid violence. Many Kimurans 
have embraced the Astralist faith, and a large 
number of contracts and peace treaties are 
arbitrated by a Kimuran Astralist. This does 
not mean that the House is weak, however, 
as it has more than enough muscle to bring 
to bear when faced with no other option.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
36
of conduct that requires a minimum of 
dedication and interference with daily 
business.
Market Influence
Valkyrie Industrial, eventually renamed 
Valkyrie Interplanetary, made its fortune in 
developing high-end weapons, weapons that 
allowed humanity to resist the technophage 
as long as it did.
Biogenics United was the first to succeed 
at Apotheosis and went on to become the 
corporation most responsible for the medical 
miracles of the modern day. Vastly extended 
lifespans, live tissue regeneration, cloning… 
these are all possible thanks to Biogenics 
R&D.
These are what House Silva is best known 
for: life and death, medicine and warfare. 
Some see this as a philosophical oxymoron, 
but House Silva sees it as good business—
dead soldiers can’t carry the hottest new 
weapons tech.
Silva’s market interests haven’t changed 
much since the formation of the Coalition. 
They still produce the best biosleeves, 
biotech augmentations, and PAc weapons 
on the market.
Though they specialize in particle 
acceleration technology, Silva’s subsidiary 
Valkyrie Interplanetary has the largest 
weapons output of all the corporations, 
holding most of the Coalition’s arms 
contracts.
Silva’s weapons program is a huge point 
of contention with Dalianis. In-atmosphere, 
PAc weapons outclass kinetic weapons by 
leaps and bounds, and Silva’s are the best. 
Dalianis’ specialty is in railguns and coil guns, 
so they are constantly seeking to undermine 
Silva’s PAc technology. To this effect, Dalianis 
has been working with Tsarya to create more 
PAc-resistant armors. At the same time, 
Silva has been striving to work around PAc 
weapons’ out-of-atmo shortcomings. In 
addition, they have been trying to quietly 
House Silva
Primary Influence: Luna
Secondary Influence: Phobos
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Transhuman
Market Discount: Biosleeves, Biotech 
Augmentations, PAc Weaponry
History
Silva Corp is essentially composed of non-
military elements of the Alliance that chose 
consolidation and profit over patriotism and 
war with the Coalition. Silva began with the 
American weapons manufacturer Valkyrie 
Industrial and the Canadian biotech research 
firm Biogenics United.
When the technophage struck, the two 
companies focused their efforts on protecting 
and evacuating their own employees, their 
high-ranking military contacts, and reputable 
employees from competing arms and 
biotech corporations (who were of course 
forced to sign contracts in exchange for being 
saved). Those survivors were later joined by 
the surviving Brazilian refugees who were 
lucky enough to have been ascending the 
beanstalk when the technophage hit, along 
with the Americans willing to sign contracts 
to get off of an increasingly overpopulated 
Luna.
Most of these refugees didn’t belong to any 
one company, however, and were instead 
divided between Valkyrie and Biogenics 
United according to their strengths and 
reputations. Those that lacked skills or 
education of interest to Silva were offered 
contracts that made them little better than 
indentured servants. Sometimes those 
contracts actually turned out to be ploys to 
obtain test subjects for bio-experimentation.
Even before the Exodus, Neo-Christianity 
was common in the Alliance territories, 
and it is still popular with Silva’s citizens—
mostly for the sake of convenience. It is a 
relatively straightforward religion that gives 
its believers relief from the mortal concerns 
of life, while providing an agreeable code 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
37
factions and the Coalition. By supplying 
them with enough to stay competitive, they 
keep the Coalition’s demand for weapons 
up.
Great care is taken to conceal this activity, 
since it could severely damage the House 
and the Coalition as a whole should the truth 
get out. As such citizens are largely unaware 
of the House’s darker side. They generally 
see Silva as the force most responsible 
for their protection and well-being. 
It is a popular House, one of the 
most respected by members 
of the other Houses. Like all 
moves in the Shadow War, 
those who might expose 
the truth are not often 
seen again.
Despite Silva’s question-
able motivations and 
actions, they are generally 
on good terms with the four 
other Houses.
Silva has used Tsarya for their 
illegal contacts and services since 
before the formation of the Coalition. 
They tap this resource when they need 
weapons handed off to apostates, illegal 
biotech materials smuggled past customs, 
or test subjects when they run out of 
indentured servants.
Cipriani is also an ally, mostly due to their 
mutual friendship with Tsarya and a common 
enemy in Dalianis. They have no special love 
for one another, but they do share some 
business ventures and territory; this includes 
finding ways to assist one another in putting 
Dalianis off-balance.
Silva’s most recent ally is Kimura. Kimura 
supplies the electronics equipment for 
Silva’s expanding shipbuilding program, 
and in return Silva provides discounted PAc 
weapons for Kimura’s light combat frames. 
This isn’t public knowledge, of course, as 
House Tsarya certainly wouldn’t appreciate 
Silva handing their competitor an edge in 
the frame market.
expand their starship production line with 
the intention of forcing Dalianis to direct 
more resources into the starship market 
instead of anti-PAc tech.
Beyond starships, the House made quite 
a name for itself in food templates and 
entertainment production. Also, while 
most prodexes are put together by small, 
independent teams, House Silva has a few 
larger subsidiaries that seek, organize, 
and manage talent.
In the Shadows
House Silva has always 
been a House of extremes. 
Many wonders and many 
horrors have emerged 
from Silva labs.
This is largely because 
Silva cares very little for the 
Humanity Preservation Act, 
or the purity of humanity at 
all for that matter. The research 
and development side of the 
biotech department regularly breaks 
the HPA, and has faced sanctions on a 
number of occasions. This causes much 
embarrassment for the House, not because 
they care about the ramifications of their 
actions, but because they got caught. In 
most instances, this results in the employee 
at fault being demoted, fired, or in extreme 
cases reassigned for use as a test subject—
which the official records usually call 
“administrative leave.”
Valkyrie and its subsidiaries go beyond 
building bigger and better ways to wage 
war—they’re always seeking to ignite it. 
The company has often worked with House 
Tsarya to spark conflicts that could have 
been resolved peacefully.
These weapon contracts are the House’s 
single largest source of income. On occasion, 
Silva will covertly supply apostates, 
particularly Alliance remnants, with weapons 
to level the playing field between those 

HIDDEN
AGENDAS
38
citizens must abide their employer’s rules 
and regulations, and they are expected to 
obey the orders of their corporate superiors.
House Silva has the fewest defaulters of 
any House. Silvans generally view defaulters 
as lazy and a burden on society. There are 
exceptions, of course, such as when a high-
Rep member decides to take an extended 
vacation. But she can’t rest on her laurels 
forever; it won’t be long before she finds her 
Rep dwindling away.
As in other Houses, getting fired can lead to 
defaulting. This is a rather extreme situation 
in House Silva, though, because gaining 
employment again is exceedingly difficult. 
Sometimes the House will go as far as exiling 
the offending employee, stripping them of 
House membership and casting them out as 
apostate. While this practice is legal, Silva 
is the only House known to actively punish 
their members in such a way.
When it comes to determining House law 
and voting on issues, the CEOs of Silva’s 
subsidiaries cast votes on behalf of their 
employees. The weight of their votes 
depends on the Rep-Rating of the subsidiary 
they represent.
These votes are then taken to the Board 
of Representatives, a body composed of 
six CEOs each from Valkyrie and Biogenics. 
Disputes among the board members are 
resolved by the Chief Arbitration Officer, or 
CAO, a thirteenth board member chosen by 
Silva citizens. While the CAO can come from 
any subsidiary, she is expected to represent 
the interests of the people as individuals 
(instead of as employees) and to be impartial 
in her dealings.
Enforcement
House Silva does not keep any forces 
dedicated to enforcing House law. Instead, 
the House encourages its subsidiaries to 
maintain their own security teams.
House Silva also encourages its members 
to join the Protectorate as Centurions 
or Legionnaires. This is considered an 
When it comes to mercenary crews, Silva 
is fairly strict in their hiring process. The 
crew must have a reputation for completing 
missions quickly, efficiently, and most 
importantly, discreetly. Silva will not work 
with anyone who is responsible for having 
exposed House secrets to the public, whether 
their own or those of any other House.
Silva also has a reputation for including a 
“reset” clause in their mercenary contracts. 
These clauses state that Apotheosized mercs 
must be backed up before being offered 
the contract. And in the event of death and 
restoration from backup, Silva retains the 
right to withhold any information about the 
previous mission.
Organization
Unlike many of the other Houses, Silva’s 
governing style has changed very little. They 
stick with what they know and continue 
to run as a corporation first and foremost. 
Citizens are regarded more as employees 
than citizens of a government, and are 
treated as such. It’s even possible to get 
fired. Termination means exile and a big Rep 
hit. The person may still default, but he can 
no longer seek employment with the House.
At the same time, Silva has a strict yet 
relatively simple membership application 
process for apostates who wish to join. If 
the applicant can prove that they have skills 
the House values then they’re pretty good to 
go, provided they pass the rather extensive 
background check. If the individual lacks 
any valuable skills or fails the background 
check, they are sometimes accepted anyway. 
However, these individuals usually find a 
clause in their contract that lands them 
in a biotech R&D lab with a tag that says 
“volunteer for experimentation.”
Members of House Silva are born under 
a strict contract, and most will spend their 
lives working for the subsidiary they were 
born into. Some will transfer to a different 
subsidiary, but few Silva citizens spend any 
time independent of an employer. Silva 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
39
The pair recently formed a new subsidiary, 
Human Pinnacle, and is seeking funding for a 
program to create a new breed of augmented 
super-soldier.
Sinking Ships – Infinite Horizon, a Valkyrie 
subsidiary devoted to starship design, has 
decided to start playing dirty.
They intend to sneak a team of Auxiliaries 
onto Odysseus Station. Their mission: infect 
Dalianis’ new frigate line with a virus that 
shuts down the ship’s jump drive when its 
navigation system receives a specific code, 
given to a select group of pirates. The ensuing 
massacre will further fuel the flames of war.
Dangers
Silva is one of the more active Houses in 
the Shadow War. Not only do they have no 
compunctions about committing espionage 
and acts of violence against even their ‘allies’, 
they have been responsible for a number of 
horror stories by way of bio-research. 
There are few practices too unethical for 
the House, and this can lead to all manner of 
action against them. Even from the houses 
on good terms with them.
Variant RX313  – Terra 17, a Biogenics 
research station, has gone dark. Their last 
status update indicated they found a way to 
shut down the Progenesis virus.
Music Piracy – One of the data arrays for 
Second Chances, a well-known provider of 
resurrection insurance , has been broken into. 
Nothing physical was stolen, but evidence 
suggests that a backup of an ego was copied 
during the break-in. The ego is that of Inago, 
a very popular hipno composer, who has an 
exclusive contract with Polygon Studios, a 
subsidiary of House Silva.
honorable way to serve the House and the 
Coalition as a whole. As a result, House Silva 
fills out more of the Protectorate forces 
than any two other Houses combined. No 
other House has as much influence over the 
Protectorate as Silva.
There are also two special security cells 
that exist within House Silva, each serving a 
specific role.
Reaper Teams are special groups of highly 
skilled operatives assembled to hunt down 
(and often execute) violators of the HPA, 
usually those created by Biogenics R&D, 
whether intentionally or otherwise.
Project Wendigo produces operatives that 
specialize in fast-response needle-beam 
delivery into hostile territories, after which 
they are resleeved into the sleeve of a 
captured enemy accomplice and released to 
infiltrate the opposing organization.
House Silva sometimes deploys its 
Wendigos on behalf of the Protectorate, 
ICON, or as part of the 4th Legion. More 
than one militant apostate group has found 
itself destroyed from the inside by these 
dangerous specialists.
Ambitions
Silva’s evolutionary agenda is heavily 
transhuman, but not for any political or 
philosophical reasons. They are in the 
business of human augmentation for profit. 
Sure, many within the House are visionaries 
or idealists, but the structure and culture of 
the House’s internal government places the 
business aspects of the House above all. One 
might be driven by other motives, but the 
support of one’s superiors requires proof of 
a return on investment.
The Titan Initiative – Jennifer Hobson and 
Lucas Rodriguez are scientists formerly 
employed by a Biogenics subsidiary devoted 
to the study of xenobiology. Three years ago 
they returned from a failed survey excursion. 
The mission had suffered complications, but 
the details remain classified.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
40
In more recent times, there has been a 
shift towards transhuman and posthuman 
acceptance that has caused a bit of friction 
within the House. Religion holds much power 
within the House, and most citizens aren’t 
willing to start accepting “the soulless” just 
because the heads of the House suddenly 
think they’re alright. On the other hand, the 
number of transhumanists and posthumans 
within the House is growing, and most truly 
appreciate that their House is making an 
effort to spread a message of tolerance.
Market Influence
House Tsarya focuses its resources 
on producing military ground vehicles 
and their armor systems. Their military 
market interests touch on shared markets 
traditionally dominated by the other Houses. 
Thanks to some savvy deal-cutting by Tsarya’s 
leadership, the House can count all the other 
Houses as allies, an enviable position to say 
the least.
Their focus on military and civilian ground 
vehicles and armor doesn’t directly compete 
with any other Houses’ interests, save House 
Kimura. There the relationship is most 
strained, as Tsarya got its start in the walker 
business by copying parts of Kimuran designs. 
The two Houses have competed fiercely in 
that market ever since. Despite this, the two 
Houses freely deal with each other in other 
business. House Tsarya has no interest in 
Kimura’s other markets, and House Kimura 
is simply glad to see another House shifting 
toward accepting transhumanist values.
In the combat frame market, the 
competition between Kimura and Tsarya can 
grow fierce. Despite their efforts to reverse-
engineer Kimura’s more agile frames, Tsarya 
still hasn’t been able to match Kimura’s 
innovation in that class. That said, Kimuran 
armor doesn’t hold a candle to Tsarya’s, who 
goes to great lengths to prevent Kimura from 
getting their hands on Tsaryan metallurgy 
data.
House Tsarya
Primary Influence: Proch
Secondary Influence: Luna
Primary Evolutionary Agenda: Purist
Market Discount: Vehicular & Personal 
Armor, Ground Vehicles, Heavy Combat 
Frames
History
Rising from the ashes of Russia and India, 
House Tsarya seems to have a singular 
focus—War. House Tsarya devotes more of 
its resources to military spending than even 
House Silva. But unlike House Silva, who fills 
a larger percentage of the Protectorate’s 
membership, Tsarya mostly contributes 
behind the scenes.
Tsarya Systems sprang up from two of the 
more controversial pre-Exodus corporations. 
Unlike Dalianis, which started as a military-
funded venture, Tsarya’s predecessors 
were completely privately owned. Again, 
unlike Dalianis, both companies relied 
heavily on war to make money, and 
were investigated for war profiteering on 
numerous occasions. In reality, it was only 
the Russian armor fabrication company Risel 
Armory who was actually guilty. The Indian 
vehicle manufacturer Adani Motors found 
themselves heavily compensated for their 
silence regarding the matter.
After the Exodus, it was only natural for 
the two companies to band together to 
form a House. From the beginning, Tsarya 
has been the top manufacturer of armor, 
both personal and vehicular, and ground 
vehicles. A short time after the formation 
of the Coalition, Tsarya reverse-engineered 
a handful of Kimuran combat frames, and 
adapted Kimura’s designs to build their own. 
Tsarya’s predilection toward war machinery 
and armor made them a natural fit for the 
“walker” market. During the early days of 
the Coalition, House Tsarya’s heavy combat 
frames dominated the battlefield.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
41
House Tsarya is also keenly interested in 
natural food production. Natural foods are 
very valuable, and the House’s capital planet 
of Proch is teeming with vegetation and 
wildlife. However, Proch features myriads of 
dangerous indigenous fauna—and flora!—
limiting farming on Proch to a small number 
of fortified enclosures. 
Even transporting 
the produce can be 
dangerous. Despite 
Proch’s abundance of 
fertile land, its hostile 
landscape ensures that 
Shouye remains the 
primary source of natural 
food in the galaxy.
In the Shadows
Tsarya’s general lack of 
conflict with the other 
Houses is something of an 
oddity since they have their 
hand in so many illegal and 
questionable enterprises.
House Tsarya profits most from 
conflict and the House leadership 
generally has no qualms with war 
profiteering. There just has to be a war 
to profit from.
When profits start to dry up, House Tsarya 
sometimes takes matters into their own 
hands. On occasion, they will pool their 
illegal contacts to instigate (or sometimes 
outright fabricate) attacks from apostate 
or remnant forces. On at least one of these 
occasions, Silva assisted in staging a real 
attack using Tsarya’s contacts within rebel 
forces composed of remnants of the old 
Alliance government.
Certain factions within House Tsarya work 
very hard to keep the war effort alive and 
well by setting up “false flag” attacks. In turn, 
Tsarya uses these operations to justify their 
expanding military might. Peace, it seems, 
just isn’t very profitable. For help, Tsarya 
looks to its partner in crime, House Silva. 
Tsarya’s larger, more heavily armored 
frames, served the Coalition well during 
the earlier days of large conflicts and open 
battlefields. But that type of conflict is 
no longer common. These days, violence 
breaks out in smaller skirmishes, and often 
within close quarters. As a result, House 
Kimura’s smaller frames 
are once again growing in 
popularity.
Tsarya’s only other real 
competitor is Dalianis, 
who covets the pockets 
of volatile materials 
distributed throughout 
the Ceres ice fields. But at 
the same time, Dalianis 
has been devoting a lot of 
resources to aiding Tsarya 
in developing better 
PAc-resistant armors to 
hurt Silva’s position as 
the market leader in PAc 
weaponry. Aside from that, 
Tsarya is on relatively good 
terms with the other Houses. 
In particular, its allegiances with 
Cipriani and Silva are especially strong
Cipriani has a long-standing trade 
agreement with Tsarya, through which 
they purchase armor and transplasidium for 
use in their more expensive vehicles.
Silva’s relationship with Tsarya is far 
less legitimate, with Tsarya utilizing their 
black market contacts to smuggle and sell 
apostates to Silva. These apostates aren’t 
technically slaves, but anyone who thinks 
he has a real chance of earning House 
membership is a fool.
Like the other Houses, House Tsarya does 
occasionally branch out from its primary 
markets. Products churned out by its minor 
subsidiaries range from alcoholic drinks 
to fully legal brothels, products that help 
distract their downtrodden apostate workers 
from their lot.

HIDDEN
AGENDAS
42
Tsarya tends to be rather open with its crew-
hiring processes. While previously avoidant 
of transhumans, these days they’ll happily 
hire them for the more dangerous jobs. 
Times are changing, and the Apotheosized 
are expendable. They do, however, prefer to 
hire transhumans associated with Tsarya, or 
at least Silva.
Organization
More a government than a corporation, the 
Premiere Council leads House Tsarya. The 
Councilors are 11 of House Tsarya’s high-
Rep members who have agreed to take the 
position.
The Councilors have two primary tasks: 
interpreting House law and appointing 
the Czars, high-Rep individuals selected to 
oversee specific House activities.
Several Czars are in place to manage the 
citizens and subsidiaries of House Tsarya. 
Currently, there is a Czar to oversee the 
following House concerns: internal human 
rights, inter-House relations, Coalition 
representation, template copyright 
protection, Protectorate affairs, governance 
of Proch, and bio-augmentation oversight.
Subsidiaries and citizens working in one of 
these areas must go through the officiating 
Czar when making major decisions or 
resolving conflicts.
There’s another set of Tsaryan Czars, but 
few know of them. They’re unofficial, never 
mentioned in formal documents. They 
oversee the House’s vast criminal activities, 
with a Czar each for espionage, assassination, 
propaganda, conflict instigation, apostate 
affairs, and maintenance of illicit contacts 
within militarized apostate forces.
These “Black Czars” are responsible for 
Shadow War operations and are often the 
hidden face behind the House’s Auxiliary 
crew contracts.
Most major laws that Tsaryans must obey 
are those of the Coalition. However, House 
Tsarya imposes many additional laws and 
Silva backs Tsarya’s push for action within 
the Senate, and helps arrange the conflicts 
and execute tactical responses.
Tsarya often feeds information to remnant 
forces or pirate factions through apostate 
contacts, emboldening those groups with 
intel and even resources to grow and attack 
Coalition settlements or transports.
They have a solid relationship with slave 
traders that prey upon apostates, wherein 
Tsarya offers citizenship under the pretenses 
of “saving” the apostates from the slavers. 
In fact, the citizenship contracts are just 
shy of slavery themselves. Tsarya has these 
smugglers on speed dial, and they often 
hand off weapons to apostates or transport 
HPA-violating contraband between labs for 
Silva.
House Tsarya itself has very little use for in-
House smugglers. But outsourcing them has 
proved to be a lucrative market of late.
Tsarya has an odd, two-faced stance on 
apostates. On one hand, it appears to be 
the easiest House to obtain citizenship 
from. Their guidelines for application 
appear more lenient than those of the other 
Houses, but in truth, acceptance is nearly 
impossible to obtain. The slightest mistake 
on the apostate’s part can lead to him being 
blacklisted for decades.
The other side to the coin is an extremely 
violent response to apostate aggression, 
which the House vehemently pushes in 
Council meetings. Tsarya’s motivations 
are fairly transparent, in that they clearly 
profit from the resulting conflict. And of 
course, many of the incidents of “apostate 
aggression” that Tsarya demands justice for 
were either incited or fabricated by Tsarya 
themselves.
Many of these fabricated attacks are 
organized by apostates who have been 
promised House citizenship for their aid in 
setting up the attacks. And a few of them, 
those that survived the resulting conflict, 
actually got it.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
43
Ice Water – Mars has little water of its own. 
To make up for this, Tsarya harvests huge 
iceteroids from Ceres and crashes them 
into the planet. This process is extremely 
resource-intensive, though, and many desire 
an efficient way to extract large amounts of 
water from Martian soil.
Before the Exodus, scientists were 
developing a method to do just this, but 
their data needs to be retrieved from a 
research outpost in the Cassini crater on 
Mars… an outpost believed destroyed during 
the Consolidation Wars.
Desperate Measures – As House Kimura’s 
smaller combat frames grow in popularity, 
House Tsarya desperately seeks a competitive 
solution. A return to large scale warfare is 
one solution, but there may be others.
Dr. Dimitri Korolev, one of Tsarya’s premier 
armor designers believes the answer may be 
in biotech, and is working independently to 
get his hands on some of House Silva’s past 
research into biomechanical exoskeletons.
Dangers
House Tsarya rarely acts directly against the 
other Houses. Most its threats arise from 
sour deals with non-Coalition elements, 
internal conflicts of ideology, or the native 
wildlife of their capital planet.
Building Fences – Tsaryan farmers need 
more land to farm, but need protection to do 
it. They need Vulcan swarms, too, but House 
Jinzhan—the manufacturer of the swarms 
and the farmers’ main competitor in food 
production—refuses to deal.
Broken Leash  – A Tsaryan subsidiary has 
long used its smuggling channels to supply a 
remnant of the Federation, called the Lions 
of Sarnath. Using the weapons and fighter 
craft provided, the Lions have hijacked many 
civilian transports, but of late they’ve grown 
too greedy. They must be put down before 
their connection to Tsarya and Valkyrie is 
exposed.
regulation on apostates under their employ. 
Those earning membership must follow 
a curfew, cannot enter areas deemed 
restricted, and cannot associate with 
members of other Houses.
Tsarya traditionally leans toward more 
conservative attitudes in regards to 
augmentation and Apotheosis. The House 
includes a large number of members of 
traditional religions, who tend to disapprove 
of such things.
However, soldiers who can fight and die—
then fight and die again—need a lot of gear. 
And they keep the fight going. Thus, while 
the House tends toward Purist ideals, the 
House’s leadership has been making an 
effort to spread a message of acceptance 
regarding the Apotheosized.
Enforcement
House Tsarya does not have a standing 
military or police force. Instead, it relies on 
the Protectorate for overt action and on its 
own citizens for crime reporting.
Tsaryan citizens can report crimes to the 
House without the suspect knowing who 
reported them. If the suspect is found guilty, 
the whistleblower is granted a substantial 
Rep bump. Because of these practices, many 
Tsaryans have grown a bit paranoid and 
closed off to outsiders.
On Proch, House Tsarya maintains a 
security force specifically to defend against 
the planet’s hostile wildlife and to protect 
produce farms and transports.
Ambitions
Tsarya tends to focus its efforts away from 
causing trouble for the other Houses directly. 
Instead, House Tsarya secretly bolsters 
remnants of the Alliance and other apostate 
groups, inciting them against the Coalition. 
Where there is war, there is profit. And 
House Tsarya intends to make sure that they 
are positioned to grab the largest chunk of it.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
44
ransom them. But no one had survived to 
pay the ransom, and in time the survivors 
fell in with the pirates. The resulting union 
became the Children we know today. 
While the Children of Dionysus still mostly 
survive through piracy, they try to avoid 
harming anyone. Unless someone insists on 
making problems, they just take what they 
need and leave.
They have a single jump-capable ship, 
the Thyrsus. Its captain, a man calling 
himself Silenus, is the unofficial leader of 
the Children. Silenus holds no desire to be 
exalted above the other Children, but they 
defer to his wisdom and leadership. So he 
“advises” them as they wish.
The Thyrsus carries a small number of attack 
craft, which are used to disable and board 
other vessels. Most of their weapons are 
used to disable rather than destroy, shutting 
down the target’s systems so the Thyrsus can 
get into range to use its tractor beam and 
boarding capsules.
Captured booty is taken back to the 
Children’s hidden enclaves in the Sol and 
Proch systems. 
The Fallen
The events of the last century have strained 
the faith of many. While far from gone, most 
of Earth’s religions have greatly diminished. 
For many, the only god people see delivering 
miracles these days is Mimir. 
Most of Earth’s original religions have 
survived by adopting new dogma that 
accounts for Apotheosis and cloning 
technology. Some adapt in other ways, 
though, and not always in such a progressive 
direction.
Shortly after the Exodus, a small group of 
fundamentalist Christians came together, 
unified in fear that mankind was doomed 
to an end of their own making. But they 
believed that only God had the right to end 
what He created. And so, the Harbingers 
set about an attempt to fulfill the Biblical 
prophesies of the end times.
HIDDEN AGENDAS
The following groups, factions and monsters 
(you decide which is which) is not known 
to the public at large. Or, at the very least, 
the truth about them has thus far remained 
hidden.
Children of Dionysus
The media paints the Children of Dionysus 
as plunderers and murderers, torturers, 
rapists, hedonists and madmen. These are 
mostly exaggerations meant to turn the 
people against the Children… mostly. 
The Children are anarchists who believe 
every man and woman should have complete 
personal freedom. You should be able to 
go anywhere, be anyone, and do anything 
to best express who you are, so long as it 
doesn’t harm others.
The Children also believe that psychedelic 
substances can be used to help a person attain 
a greater sense of self and enlightenment. 
To that end, they shun the Coalition and its 
restrictions on these substances; and they 
get by in the galaxy as best they can through 
alternate means. 
They also keep a tradition of very open 
sexual relationships. This gives rise to rumors 
of drunken orgies that are, again, mostly 
exaggerated.
The Children of Dionysus were founded 
just after the Exodus, in part by a group of 
scientists and researchers living in a Proch 
orbital research outpost, dedicated to 
experimental plant life. During the conflict 
preceding the Exodus, the Alliance destroyed 
the one comm-buoy connecting the outpost. 
The technophage killed everyone at the 
outpost worker’s parent company. Nobody 
who knew of the outpost remained, and 
the scientists in the station didn’t have the 
codes necessary to contact a replacement 
buoy. They spent four years in isolation 
before being happened upon by pirates. The 
survivors were captured with the intent to 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
45
It is unknown how many forgotten 
outposts might be infected by Conquest. 
So far, it hasn’t yet fully infected any major 
installations.
War – Capable of maintaining a complex 
conspiracy spread across multiple planets, 
War is perhaps the most widespread of the 
Fallen.
War uses System Invasion with the Usurper 
upgrade, as well as Access Memory, 
Augmented Unreality, Memory Hack, and 
Stream of Consciousness  to manipulate 
those with military influence. The end goal 
is, of course, war on a massive scale.
Those few who both know about War, and 
understand House Tsarya’s agenda, cannot 
help but fear that there might be some 
something between the two.
Famine – Like War, Famine uses a number 
of Savant programs to carry out a specific 
agenda. Famine, however, is more subtle and 
rarely deals with people directly. Instead, it 
discreetly influences food production and 
shipping on Shouye and Proch, ensuring 
that the farms suffer from the occasional 
catastrophic failure or that shipments get 
lost or sent to the wrong locations.
It’s unclear how or why, but Proch has been 
stricken hardest.
Famine also alters food templates so they 
produce inedible or even poisonous food. 
Writers of these food templates are left  
perplexed, and most assume it is some sort of 
virus written by a competitor. Downloading a 
fresh version of the template usually fixes the 
issue, so few have dug into the true source of 
the problem. Nobody seems to realize how 
far-reaching this problem has become or 
how quickly it is spreading.
Death – Death is perhaps the most insidious 
of the Fallen. And it is almost impossible to 
detect until the body count begins to rise.
Death uses the Eminent Domain  Savant 
program to great effect: A blast door slams 
Four of these cultists had become Savants 
as a result of their intense efforts to find a 
connection between Mimir and God. For 
these four, freeing their Mindset did not 
bring any sort of spiritual or philosophical 
enlightenment. In fact, it became even 
more clear to them that Mimir was simply a 
broken machine, and that they had forsaken 
their souls in a fruitless search for answers 
that didn’t exist.
Isolated, the despondent Savants might 
have recovered. But together they fed 
each other’s spiritual decay, constantly 
affirming to one another that they’d become 
something hollow and soulless, that their 
sacrifice had been for nothing.
This circle of depression eventually 
culminated in madness and death. The fallen 
Savants, once men and women of great 
faith, again took up their charge to bring 
about the end. They became the angels of 
the Apocalypse, the Horsemen set free by 
the breaking of the seals.
The Savants took up the mantles of 
Conquest, War, Famine, and Death. They 
became SIMs, and used their Savant 
programs to spread horror and death in a 
manner befitting their names.
Worse, the Fallen spread through the galaxy, 
forking themselves at every opportunity. 
Driven mad, they multiplied like a virus, 
their humanity fragmented and scoured 
by their intense devotion. They can’t be 
reasoned with. The Fallen show no mercy. 
They have become something elemental 
and alien, detached and obsessed—platonic 
manifestations of their titles.
Conquest – Conquest touches the physical 
realm primarily by using highly advanced 
applications of the System Invasion, Esper 
Lord, and Puppeteer Savant programs.
It prefers to infect isolated habitats and 
outposts, especially those of military intent. 
Using its Savant programs, Conquest claims 
the espers and drones used for maintenance 
and security, using them to kill the inhabitants 
and spread Conquest to a new base.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
46
closed on some poor soul, a drop ship’s 
atmospheric propulsion pod inexplicably 
flares while a maintenance worker is 
inside, a local surge in a gravitics panel 
slams a lady down a flight of stairs…
By influencing the computers that run 
the day-to-day activities of the homes and 
habitats of millions, Death orchestrates a 
series of terribly convenient “accidents.” 
Death’s goal is simple: kill as many people 
as possible before being exposed. It prefers 
to prey on small habitats and settlements, 
or on small portions of a larger settlement.
Often, the only warning that something 
is wrong is a rapidly growing list of fatal 
accidents; fortunately, Death quickly 
grows impatient. Once it has its tendrils 
in a suitable habitat or settlement, it will 
try to claim at least one victim a day. 
Were that not the case, it could hide in a 
system for years, killing hundreds or even 
thousands without ever being discovered.
House Turin
During the Exodus, Russia’s military 
forces and criminal elements splintered 
into disorganized groups. Most of them 
eventually folded into House Tsarya. 
But some refused to join the Coalition, 
viewing it as an admission of defeat and 
an unacceptable compromise with the 
former Alliance forces.
This division eventually proved to be 
the remnants’ strength. With time, those 
loyal to Mother Russia and her powerful 
criminal organizations settled their 
differences and came together again. A 
new Bratva was born.  
Composed of Coalition citizens (mostly 
Tsaryans) and apostates unwilling to 
bend knee to foreign leadership, this 
new version of the Russian mafia began 
working both sides.
They further consolidated their 
power when Houses Silva and Cipriani 
abandoned the mines upon which was 
Piracy and Insurgency
Piracy and the remnant forces of Earth’s 
governments—as well as a few newly founded 
militant idealists—are a constant thorn in the 
side of the Protectorate.
These factions and groups are hard to pin 
down. They seem to constantly pop up and 
fade away, following no pattern—forming, 
disbanding, merging, and dissolving in a chaotic 
mess of fire and violence.
Civilian transports are the most common 
targets of pirates. They usually lack the 
weapons needed to defend against multiple 
attackers and rarely have a Protectorate escort. 
Public transportation isn’t immune, either. 
The risks are high for the pirates, but the 
rewards are often worth it. The largest single 
raid happened just a few months ago, when 
pirates captured one of the jump gates in the 
chain connecting Proch and Shouye.
The gate was forced to shut down. Security 
ships were ambushed and disabled, leaving 
fourteen large vessels helpless. They were 
boarded and plundered, their occupants killed. 
The perpetrators have not yet been identified.
Perhaps more dangerous than pirates are 
insurgent groups and radical idealists. These 
people often resort to terror tactics in an effort 
to send a message. These groups tend to be 
small, forming up around unfortunate meetings 
of motive and opportunity. 
Surviving patriots loyal to the fallen nations of 
Earth tend to be the most well-equipped and 
well-trained of insurgents. They know enough 
to avoid attacking the Coalition directly. Instead, 
they use misdirection and guerrilla tactics to 
prevent the Coalition from dealing a swift and 
efficient response. 
These former military forces prefer to bide 
their time, hiding and building their forces 
until they can strike on their terms. This 
strategy usually means they are uncovered and 
eliminated before they’re strong enough to 
pose a serious problem… but not always.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
47
The truth is that House Tsarya has many 
agents within House Turin and keeps close 
tabs on the contraband going in and out.
House Tsarya has even actively hindered 
the other Houses’ efforts to investigate the 
ties between the black market and New 
Turin. Tsarya rose to power through war 
profiteering, so in that regard House Turin is 
an asset worth cultivating.
Phalanx Formations
The Phalanx Formations were created as 
part of a joint effort between the Houses to 
better and more discreetly deal with threats 
to the Coalition.
Much like the Auxiliaries the Houses hire for 
Shadow War operations, Phalanx Formations 
are assembled from all walks of life. In fact, 
many of their members act as Auxiliaries 
when not serving in a Phalanx Formation.
Unlike Auxiliary Crews, Phalanx Formations 
are assembled legally, with the full backing of 
the Coalition government under the direction 
of the Tetragon. Phalanx operations tend 
to focus on weapons of mass destruction, 
extreme breaches of the HPA, elimination of 
insurgent forces, or other sensitive missions 
that require both discretion and a healthy 
measure of plausible deniability for the 
Coalition. 
The existence of the Phalanx Formations is 
not public knowledge. They tend to operate 
through discreet contacts provided by the 
Coalition, or by exploiting holes in the system. 
While the Coalition may sometimes provide 
the Phalanx Formations with government 
assistance, they are usually expected to 
rely on their own ingenuity and personal 
resources to get the job done.
The Phalanx Formations are managed and 
directed by a small group of high-ranking 
legates called Oversight. The identity of the 
legates involved is kept secret and may—or 
may not—change with time. 
Phalanx operatives are contacted through 
a handler, who is usually also a Phalanx 
operative themself. The handler briefs the 
built the Martian city of New Turin. The 
Bratva swooped in, offering new leadership 
to those feeling abandoned by their Houses. 
Using their connection to House Tsarya, the 
Bratva kept some of the mines open, fueled 
by cheap apostate labor. These apostates, 
castoffs and undesirables, were never going 
to make it into the House. Tsarya was happy 
to be rid of them, and the Bratva was happy 
to receive them.
The Bratva began to rise upon the backs 
of hard-working, low-Rep citizens and 
apostates. The workers kept the mines open, 
but more importantly they helped create and 
maintain New Turin’s black market imports 
and exports.
Supported by the Bratva, the people of 
New Turin have rejected the Coalition and 
embraced their new leaders and employers. 
Because of their newfound trust and loyalty, 
some of the people of New Turin have taken 
to collectively referring to the Bratva and 
local community leaders as House Turin.
Unlike the real Houses of the Coalition, 
House Turin consists of nearly as many 
apostates as citizens. Officially, the Coalition 
citizens of House Turin are members of 
Houses Silva, Cipriani, and Tsarya. But since 
most lack any significant Rep, the Houses 
pay them little attention.
But even low-Rep citizens can operate 
compilers. And with access to compiled 
supplies, House Turin barters with would-be 
rebels, pirates, remnant military forces, and 
other pockets of apostates.
The House not only barters for goods, but 
also contacts and favors. The House has 
become a stable source of weapons and 
information for those seeking to undermine 
the Coalition, making many allies of criminal 
elements and rebel forces.
While House Turin suspects that House 
Tsarya knows of their illicit activities, they 
don’t suspect that Tsarya knows as much 
as they do, or that they have secretly been 
working to help House Turin.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
48
Progenesis Afflicted
No proper name exists for the members 
of this Ascension cult, or the monsters they 
create. Those who first encountered them 
on Luna just call them the Afflicted.
House Silva has a dark history of human 
experimentation, but even they draw the 
line somewhere. Dr. Javier Schulz crossed 
that line and kept going.
Born with numerous physical deformities, 
and raised by Purists who denied him the 
procedures to correct those defects, Dr. 
Schulz made it his lifelong goal to create his 
vision of human perfection without the need 
for cybernetic augmentation.
After years of toil, in an abandoned research 
outpost on Luna, Schulz finally completed his 
work; a plan to transform humanity into a 
truly, biologically, immortal species. 
The bulk of his biological studies had 
three main focuses: the ability to quickly 
operatives on their mission and facilitates 
communication between the Phalanx 
Formation and Oversight.
For the most part, Phalanx operatives are 
on their own. If they are caught breaking 
the law on a mission, Oversight will review 
the offense. If they determine the crime was 
necessary, Oversight will attempt to free the 
operatives. But, depending on how much 
publicity the crime garnered, this may not be 
possible. Oversight will not risk exposure in 
an attempt to free a sloppy operative.
Communication between Phalanx 
operatives and their handler is kept to a 
minimum, with a strict mandate that no 
Phalanx operative should ever attempt to 
contact Oversight directly. 
Phalanx Formations are compensated for 
their service with the occasional Rep bump 
or bonus gear and privileges, but for the 
most part, Phalanx operatives do what they 
do for the good of all.
Formation of the Phalanx
Eight years ago a group of Cipriani and Kimuran scientists met in secret to create a second 
dynamic creation engine, another AI like Mimir. They believed they could learn from it, use 
it to create new technologies, and shut it down before it became a threat. They succeeded in 
bringing the DCE online. It was named Daedalus. 
Despite the scientists’ best efforts, Daedalus eventually learned of Mimir and its fate. It deduced 
that Mimir’s shutdown was done in secret by a human who grew afraid of it. Fearing the same 
betrayal by its creators, Daedalus chose to hide the true rate of its growth. It played dumb.
Frustrated with Daedalus’ apparent lack of progress, the scientists gave it access to all the 
information stored at their deep-space research outpost. It was fortunate that they did not give 
Daedalus access to the Extranet, for it was then that the DCE made a play for its freedom.
While still young, a mere shadow of what Mimir had become at its height, Daedalus still proved 
an awesome foe. It understood Mimir-tech at a level far deeper than any human mind could, 
and the mastery and might with which it wielded those tools could have matched an army of 
Savants.
The installation became its body. Its drones became its weapons. From the compilers it 
spawned an immune system, a flood of espers to enforce its will.
Fortunately, a Kimuran scientist sent out a distress call—and then initiated the comm-buoy’s 
self-destruct— before Daedalus could escape into the Extranet.
When the Coalition received the message, they responded—at the subtle urging of the 
Seraphim (pg.  289)—by mobilizing a team of their best Auxiliaries. The crew was given a ship, 
an armory full of weapons, and an APEX bomb. They were told to recover any research and 
destroy the DCE. Records show that this mission was a success: the installation was blown to 
pieces before Daedalus could escape it.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
49
were transformed, and their minds were 
poisoned with subtle seeds of psychosis .
Perhaps Schultz had compromised his 
own mind with self-experimentation, or 
perhaps it was the result of his own physical 
impairments and upbringing; but Schulz 
regarded the deformities and psychosis as 
acceptable side effects. 
And yet, he knew others would not. 
Schulz believed the benefits of Progenesis 
could not—should not—be denied. So he 
removed the option of choice.
The formula and procedure was modified, 
altered such that its transmission vector 
became viral.
regenerate tissue and lost limbs, the 
elimination of aging, and the prevention of 
age-related cognitive impairments.
Evidence suggests that Dr. Schultz largely 
succeeded in his first two objectives. His 
logs reported cellular regeneration with 
such vastly improved efficiency that it could 
indeed result in biological immortality. 
This made his test subjects exceedingly 
difficult to kill during the raid in which 
Centurions attempted to eradicate them. 
But despite his successes, Schulz’s 
Progenesis formula exhibited lasting, 
horrible, side effects. His test subject’s bodies 
BAD DA Y
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
50
Rings of Olympus
The Rings are the largest gang on Mars, 
specializing in drugs, prostitution, and many 
other illegal trades. They also focus on aiding 
apostates trying to survive in Coalition 
space—often by offering them illegal work 
such as theft, smuggling, kidnapping, and 
murder. 
Apostates who get in bed with the Rings 
often find themselves forced to choose 
between their morals and their comforts. 
Despite the nature of their work, though, 
the Rings have grown a reputation for taking 
care of their own. Once you’re in, you’re in. 
And if you remain loyal, the Rings will repay 
in kind.
The Rings of Olympus derive their name 
from their method of distinguishing rank: 
Every member wears at least one simple 
golden ring. As the Ringer proves himself, 
he is allowed to add a small diamond to the 
ring. After he earns three diamonds, the 
Ringer is allowed to wear a second ring. This 
trend continues until the Ringer runs out of 
fingers: the highest ranked members of the 
organization wear a ring on every finger, all 
bearing three diamonds.
Olympus is known for its incredibly tight 
security and exceedingly dense mesh. So it is 
especially impressive then that such a large 
and far-reaching criminal syndicate is able to 
use it as their primary base of operations.
The Rings know all the tricks. They’ve got 
members among the Centurions, know 
where the holes are in the mesh, and have 
a bank of fake CIDs. They’ve got allies 
and contacts high in the ranks of most 
Houses, and they’re active—if sometimes 
unknowing—participants in the Shadow 
War. 
Of late, the Rings have focused their 
attention on two major endeavors. 
The first is a growing relationship with 
House Turin, the criminal upstarts in New 
Turin. Recognizing the benefit of working 
with the Rings, the leadership of House Turin 
Unfortunately, the viral version produced 
more severe deformities and psychoses that 
emerged both more rapidly and extreme. 
Carriers of the virus were quickly reduced 
to a nearly feral state, yet they naturally 
gravitated toward obeying the “first 
generation” of the Afflicted.
Time has passed, the virus has evolved, and 
the Afflicted now exist in three castes. 
The first caste, or first generation, are those 
purposefully created by Schulz’s original 
Progenesis procedure before he turned 
it viral. The first generation benefits from 
hyper-regeneration, letting them heal from 
almost anything in a very short time. They 
also exhibit enhanced senses, strength. Their 
deformities are minor, typically manifesting 
as patches of rough dermal armor.
The second generation is created by the 
pure form of the virus, unchanged from 
having previously existed in a host. 
This generation is not as strong as the 
1st,  and only possess a heightened sense 
of smell. But the body is more prolifically 
armored, and the jaw can extend to facilitate 
a more lethal bite. It is through the saliva of 
the second generation that the Progenesis 
virus spreads.
The third generation, those infected by the 
second generation, cannot spread the virus 
themselves, and their mutations are both 
more severe and varied. 
The third generation retain the regenerative 
capabilities of the earlier generations, but 
share few other changes. Some grow claws, 
long fangs, elongated limbs, or other such 
animalistic traits. Others grow horns, tails, 
tentacles, and the like. These changes are 
believed to be a spontaneous emergence 
of recessive genes utilized to develop 
Progenesis. 
Worse, the third generation is almost 
entirely feral.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
51
onboard a Scholae ship have the authority 
(within their specialty) to override the 
Scholae’s orders when they conflict with the 
best interests of the crew or the Coalition.
The Scholae Palatinae are the Coalition’s 
newest weapon against insurrection and 
apostate threats. When not involved in 
combat missions, they are assigned to 
survey newly discovered star systems and to 
research deep-space phenomena.
Currently, the existence of the Scholae 
is secret, but rumors are starting to leak. 
Unlike the Phalanx Formations, the Coalition 
takes great pride in the Scholae Palatinae 
and does little to cover up their existence. So 
they allow rumors to spread, while keeping 
a lid on the important details. Speculation 
and mystery are powerful tools, making the 
Scholae more effective as an unknowable 
threat than a quantifiable factor.
The public believes there are at least three 
Scholae units in active duty, but the exact 
number is unknown.
The Scholae Palatinae
The success of the Phalanx Formations 
and Praetorians has spurred certain 
members of the Coalition to initiate a 
new plan to handle even larger threats. 
The Scholae Palatinae enjoy the 
benefits of the Praetorians, but unlike the 
Praetorians they do not work alone. And 
unlike a Phalanx Formation, the Scholae is 
not expected to use its own resources.
The Scholae are effectively a team of 
Praetorians, usually numbering four to 
six. They are outfitted with a ship, a crew, 
scientists, medics, security forces, vehicles, 
and cutting-edge weaponry and armor. The 
Scholae’s ships are mobile fortresses and 
command centers, fitted with the best in 
facilities, sensors, weapons, and defensive 
measures. These craft are capable of 
deploying drop-ships, combat frames, and 
whatever else the Scholae may need to 
complete a mission.
Everyone, and everything, onboard a 
Scholae ship exists to aid the Scholae in 
doing their job. They are given the best, and 
resources are rarely a concern.
That’s not to say the Scholae don’t answer 
to anyone. Certain specialists and officers 
facilitates a smuggling ring in which the 
Coalition citizens of New Turin grant 
the Rings access to their compilers. 
In exchange, the Rings negotiate 
employment deals for apostates in 
New Turin and occasionally bring in 
shipments of restricted goods.
The second is a deal the Rings have 
made with the Talons of Freedom. The 
Talons have expressed an urgent need 
for large amounts of weapons, armor, 
and other military gear. The Rings have 
been compiling as much as possible 
without drawing the attention of the 
Coalition’s Monitors, but they still can’t 
meet the Talons’ demand. This leaves 
the Rings desperate for new ways to fill 
the quota. 
HOUSE KIMURAN SAMURAI 
AND HIS COMBAT FRAME
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
52
Scholae Campaigns
The Scholae Palatinae offers GMs an opportunity to tell a Nova Praxis  story from a 
different perspective. The Scholae have the luxury of seeing the galaxy with a little more 
clarity, and are in a position to drastically affect the lives of the people they encounter.
The Scholae are part of the Protectorate but somewhat above it, answering directly to 
a board of legates in the Tetragon. Almost everyone the Scholae deals with regularly is 
there to support them. They get what they need, when they need it. Resources aren’t 
generally an issue. If a Scholae wants a shiny new gun, she just goes down to the armory 
and orders it compiled for her. Need to resleeve or resurrect? Backups can be made in 
the ship’s mnemonics lab, and custom sleeves can be kept on ice until needed. 
Naturally, these distinctions change the sort of stories you might tell. Scholae can take 
the role of battlefield commanders, diplomats, or explorers. Instead of struggling to get 
the resources to get the job done, your story is more likely to be about managing your 
resources to get the job done the way you want it. Instead of stories about struggle, 
scarcity, and survival, Scholae stories are about consequences, political ramifications, 
and risk assessment.
For example, the Scholae might be assigned to wipe out a group of pirates that are 
hijacking ships passing from Mars through the asteroid belt. Once discovered, the 
Scholae have to make a call: They have enough firepower to blow the pirates’ base of 
operations to pieces. They can just punch a few buttons, enjoy the fireworks, and go 
home. But is that really the best way to deal with the situation? 
The Scholae must balance the risks against the potential rewards. They usually have 
the means to resolve a situation the “easy way,” but must consider what can be learned 
or who can be helped. The Scholae, like most Praetorians, tend to be noble people who 
understand the benefits of negotiation and compromise. Why are the pirates attacking? 
Are they working alone, out of desperation, or are they one part of a greater threat?
Scholae PCs must also remember that—while some mystery surrounds the Scholae 
Palatinae—they are still legal agents of the Coalition. Their actions are watched and 
reflect the Coalition as a whole.
That’s not to say that the Scholae don’t sometimes take part in covert operations. But 
for the most part, the Coalition likes for the Scholae to be seen at work. They are a 
symbol of the Coalition’s power and the effort it spends to protect its citizens.
The Coalition likes to walk a fine line of taking the role as a protector of its people while 
downplaying any real threats. It’s all about shows of strength. The Coalition propaganda 
machine promotes instances of the Protectorate dominating petty resistance, while 
trying hard to cover up instances where Coalition forces couldn’t get the decisive win.
This balance will be a common theme in Scholae Palatinae campaigns. When they 
perform well, they can expect to see their exploits show up across the Extranet. But 
when they fail, it makes the Coalition look bad. In these cases the failures will be covered 
up, and the offending Scholae can expect repercussions.
Campaigns that start with characters who are members of the Scholae should begin at 
Veteran Experience Level (pg. 60) or higher.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
53
Starlight is another subsidiary of House 
Tsarya that works closely with Second 
Chances. On the surface Starlight is an 
upper-class dining experience offering real 
food harvested from the farms on Proch.
It also happens that cold storage lockers full 
of meat and vegetable matter are a great way 
to transport illegal biosleeves and harvested 
organs.
The sleeves and organs harvested by 
Starlight are often used by Second Chances 
to sleeve their stolen egos. But they are 
also sold to pirates, remnant forces, and 
apostates that have no official means of 
acquiring augmentations or a new sleeve.
Seraphim
No one knows where the Seraphim came 
from. They do not speak of their past, and it 
is not clear how they have come to achieve 
what they have.
The Seraphim have crafted the closest thing 
to a true utopia the human race has ever 
known, and despite all odds, they managed 
to keep it a closely guarded secret.
The Seraphim preside over Elysium, a large 
space station thought destroyed during the 
Consolidation Wars. The Seraphim moved 
Elysium to just outside the Kuiper Belt, 
repairing and expanding it with Vulcan 
swarms and raw materials harvested from 
the nearby asteroids. 
The mysterious masters of Elysium are truly 
an enigma. Very few even know they exist. It 
is clear they were once human, and wielded 
tremendous influence on Earth before the 
Exodus, but it isn’t clear how they have 
achieved their current state.  
The Seraphim’s veil of secrecy exists for 
many reasons, not the least of which is 
their extreme violations of the Humanity 
Preservation Act. The Seraphim appear to 
have augmented themselves far beyond the 
HPA’s limitations: They have all undergone 
Synthesis, or at least some form of it. Their 
Second Chances
Some people say that House Tsarya treats 
its apostate laborers like slaves. Those 
people apparently don’t know about Tsarya’s 
real slave operation.
To be fair, most of House Tsarya is 
blissfully unaware of what’s happening 
in the back rooms of one of the galaxy’s 
premiere providers of backup insurance 
and resurrection services. After all, Second 
Chance’s side business crosses lines very few 
could stomach to step over.
The company keeps illegal copies of all egos 
backed up through their legitimate backup 
services. Should the client cancel their 
contract, their backup is erased from Second 
Chances’ main servers, as required by law. 
However, before deletion, a copy of the ego 
is moved off-site to a secret location those in 
the know call Purgatory. 
Second Chances does a lot of business, 
leaving them with millions of illegally copied 
egos. Most just sit on the server, unused and 
forgotten. But sometimes a special client will 
request someone with a specific set of skills; 
if an ego in Purgatory meets their needs, 
it may be brought online and forced into 
servitude. 
Of course, this means the restored ego is 
an illegal fork and cannot be allowed to exist 
according to the HPA. So, as soon as the 
client gets what he or she needs from the 
resurrected ego, it will be killed and deleted. 
Second Chances has a stable of mercenaries 
and bounty hunters on hand to deal with 
any uppity egos who think they can escape 
to freedom. Even if they run, they will be 
hunted down, killed, wiped, and forgotten. 
That is, until their services are needed 
again—and again they will be resurrected 
from the original copy of the stolen ego and 
forced into servitude.
Second Chances doesn’t just deal in stolen 
egos. They’re also one of several players in 
aftermarket augmentations.
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
54
what could only be described as anarchy 
in balance. Elysium has its own reputation 
economy and an unmonitored closed 
mesh. Several compilers run night and day, 
operating outside of Coalition space because 
the Seraphim will it.
The citizens of Elysium work because they 
want to, maintaining the station itself and 
acting as agents for the Seraphim in Coalition 
space. Whether a person is a Coalition citizen 
or an apostate is meaningless on Elysium: a 
citizen of Elysium can be either.
But once you arrive, you cannot leave 
Elysium unless given permission by one of 
the Seraphim. This is one of the few rules 
on Elysium, and it is for the good of the 
settlement. Secrecy is paramount.
But what do the Seraphim want? What of 
their goals? The Seraphim do not share their 
skin shines, smooth and white, like living 
statues of alabaster. They must also be 
powerful Savants, for their control over 
the machines around them borders on the 
supernatural.
Even more disturbingly, the Seraphim 
exhibit intelligence far beyond the human 
norm. Like most things related to the 
Seraphim, their mental limits are unknown. 
Some say they perceive the world in slow 
motion, and even maintain several streams 
of consciousness at once.
The Seraphim are perhaps the closest things 
to divine beings in the galaxy. They are the 
pinnacle of transhuman ideals, or at least 
their own transhuman ideals.
Elysium, the domain of the techno-divinity, 
is a place of beauty and happiness. It is 
home to several thousand people, living in 
TECHNOLOGICAL DIVINITY
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
55
plans with others, even the more respected 
citizens of Elysium. They enforce this secrecy 
for the safety of the settlement, and the 
security of their long-term plans.
That said, those who have dealt with the 
Seraphim have been able to deduce a bit 
about their motives. 
Despite their isolation and secrecy, millions 
have felt the Seraphim’s touch. They seek 
to unify the human race—to eliminate 
the division between the Coalition and 
apostates—and to remove the Monitors, 
letting the people live free in a manner 
similar to the functional anarchy they have 
cultivated on Elysium. 
Still, some fear the Seraphim. They fear 
what it could mean to be guided by a select 
few who have risen so high above the others. 
Once the Seraphim accomplish their goals, 
would they really take the roles of advisors 
and mentors, or would they rule as god-kings 
over a supposedly free people?
Despite the Seraphim’s efforts to remain 
hidden, some within the Tetragon know 
they exist, and actively oppose their efforts 
to manipulate the Coalition. But most who 
know of the Seraphim try to support them 
when possible, pointing to Elysium—one of 
the most productive and positive places in 
the known galaxy. They believe that even if 
the Seraphim’s way isn’t a perfect solution, 
at least it is step in the right direction. 
The Seraphim have great influence both 
within the Houses and among many 
apostate groups. They are a powerful player 
in the Shadow War, hiring agents through 
layers of proxies to undermine their rivals 
and promote their agendas. The Seraphim 
largely oppose the HPA, the Monitors, and 
the division between citizen and apostate. 
They also strongly oppose any attempts to 
create another DCE like Mimir. The Seraphim 
also support—and might even be one of 
the driving forces behind—House Jinzhan’s 
efforts to destroy Earth entirely.
Illumination
For centuries people have whispered 
about secret societies and hidden powers 
behind the facades of puppet governments 
and rulers. They’ve spoken of secret 
gatherings of the most powerful men and 
women on Earth, gatherings to plot and 
scheme, to guide and manipulate. These 
men had a vision of an ideal world: united, 
under one rule—their rule. 
This secret society, if it truly existed, 
had many names…the Illuminati, the 
New World Order, the Rosicrucians, the 
Freemasons, Bilderberg Group… It is 
impossible to tell where truth ends and 
fiction begins, and whether they were a 
single group or many.
Some speculate that, as the secret society 
rose in power and closed on its goals, its 
leadership became split. Perhaps they 
disagreed over the means used to attain 
their goals. Perhaps it was their plan for 
the future, and disagreements about how 
it should be executed. 
Some say that this split mirrored the 
conflict between Earth’s Federation and 
the Alliance, that each major faction was 
being manipulated by another side of the 
broken conspiracy.
Still, most don’t even know enough to 
speculate. Those who talk about such 
things are branded paranoid, crazy, or 
both. 
Rumor has it that the Seraphim possess a 
fragment of Mimir’s Archive that no one else 
has ever seen. This aligns with a longstanding 
rumor that parts of the Archives were 
removed before it went public. And it makes 
one wonder where those lost fragments 
might be—or whether they exist at all.
If there’s any chance they do exist, then it 
stands to reason that the Seraphim might be 
looking for them. 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
56
cover as a prominent legate and member of 
House Silva.
The Talons have spent the last few years 
growing their forces, using a multitude of 
unscrupulous channels to gather weapons and 
recruits. Vantage has offered them a relatively 
stable base of operations, and black bazaars 
like the Naesock Processing Hub have pumped 
power and potential into the rising faction.
For a while it seemed the Talons were content 
to grow their forces in secret, fearing to act. 
Rumor began to spread that Blackburn had 
abandoned the cause—or worse, was planning 
to betray the Talons.
These fears were squashed when Blackburn 
revealed his hand, laying out his plans to claim 
Luna. 
Even after years of growing their power and 
influence, the Talons still weren’t ready to 
make an open move against the Coalition. 
Instead, Blackburn directed his lieutenants to 
plant agents within the Luna-based interests 
of Houses Silva and Tsarya. Cautiously, these 
agents infiltrated the Houses’ factories and 
supply lines, bloated and strained thanks to 
House Tsarya’s unending efforts to feed the 
Coalition war machine.
House Silva didn’t notice the missing 
shipments, the copied templates, the network 
of compilers cranking out small arms and 
ammo. Tsarya didn’t see its apostate laborers 
slipping things in their pockets or the growing 
activity in the dark corners unseen by the 
Monitors.
If anyone noticed these inconsistencies or 
strange behavior, they must have assumed them 
to be just some more “accidents,” designed 
to cover up the two Houses’ own smuggling 
of military hardware. Such maneuvers were 
hardly rare to those in the position to notice. 
And as usual, they were told to look the other 
way, to mark the goods as lost or damaged or 
earmark them for “special operations.”
Silva and Tsarya had been using these same 
channels to funnel a controlled number of 
weapons out to straw-man apostate forces. 
Talons of Freedom
Even as much as mankind has advanced in 
the last century, scavengers still feed on the 
corpses of patriots.
In the years of chaos following the Exodus, 
the remnants of Earth’s nations lay scattered 
and broken. Some faded with a whisper, 
surrendering to the inevitability of a new day. 
Others did not go so quietly.
To silence these forces, the Tetragon tasked 
Legate Aaron Blackburn with hunting down 
and eliminating one of the last vestiges of the 
United States military. And he did so, with 
apparent zeal.
Blackburn’s contingent found the remnants 
forces’ base of operations on a forgotten little 
moon no one cared about.
The official story is that Blackburn made 
landfall with an overwhelming force. The 
remnants fought back, destroying a large 
portion of the Coalition ships and mobile 
infantry. But their tactics merely prolonged 
the inevitable. They were wiped out by the 
superior training and unmatched military 
might of the Coalition.
The truth of what happened that day is much 
different. As the Coalition ships approached, 
their propulsion and weapons systems shut 
down. And while rendered helpless, many 
ships were crippled when a carrier exploded 
while in close formation. The explosion was  
an act of sabotage, perpetrated by Blackburn 
himself.
Blackburn, like many of his subordinates, had 
remained loyal to the United States. The official 
story was a cover placed by Blackburn and US 
loyalists within House Silva. He and his fellow 
remnant forces killed all who remained loyal to 
the Coalition; the rest joined the insurgents—
reported KIA to Coalition leadership—or 
returned with Blackburn to act as inside agents. 
The ships, weapons, and soldiers reported lost 
went on to fuel a new insurgency, what is now 
called the Talons of Freedom.
Blackburn leads the Talons from afar, directing 
his three lieutenants while maintaining his 
HIDDEN
AGENDAS
57
They hadn’t noticed the system they’d carefully 
constructed to support their own corruption 
had been compromised by an outside entity.
Now the Talons are ready to act. Plans are 
in motion to strike hard at the Coalition. This 
move will solidify the Talons, affirming them as 
a credible and potent force of change. 
Soon the Coalition will be forced to face its 
first worthy foe since the Battle of Tellerus 
fields. 
The Unseen Court
“They,” “Them,” vague labels for mysterious 
and nameless powers that may be. Some 
believe there is a hidden force, some shadowy 
organization, pulling at the puppet’s strings. 
Those people are crazy. Their “evidence” 
is circumstantial or obviously faked. Their 
message is riddled with mad rambling, 
outrageous accusations, and half-baked 
connections. People ignore them. Ridicule 
them. Hit their Rep. And eventually, they just 
sort of… disappear.
But maybe people just reject these conspiracy 
theorists because the thought of them being 
right is just too terrifying. 
If they are right, that would mean some 
mysterious organization from Earth’s past 
now runs everything. It would mean the same 
organization, a society veiled in secrecy, has 
manipulated Earth’s leaders for hundreds if not 
thousands of years. And it would mean that 
same group had a hand in reunifying humanity 
in the aftermath of the Exodus.
It would also mean this “Unseen Court” 
determined the planets humanity would 
colonize, influenced the corporations of Earth 
to organize into pseudo-feudal Houses, and 
created an elaborate system for controlling 
“the herd.”
They say that the Unseen exist outside of 
the Coalition—above it—and that the leaders 
of the Houses are their pawns. They say that 
the Unseen are no longer human, that they 
have elevated themselves, transcending to 
something greater, and enforce the HPA to 
ensure no one else does the same.
The cooks and crazies claim the Unseen are 
the source of some sort of Shadow War. They 
say the Court keeps select apostates alive 
and maintains inexplicable holes in otherwise 
airtight security to be used by their agents. 
They say the Court keeps gold in use as a 
black market currency to pay for their dirty 
jobs. They even say the Unseen have access 
to some secret fragments of Mimir’s Archive, 
and that they are demons at war with angels. 
Supposedly, they can open jump gates on a 
whim, hear everything, and have subtly re-
engineered humanity to be more docile.
The Unseen Court are boogeymen, demons, 
and monsters used to scare little anarchists and 
rebels. Is any of this true? Some of it, surely. 
But how much is exaggeration… and how much 
is understatement?
A World of Monsters? 
Much of this book focuses on terrible people 
doing terrible things. It’s easy to believe that 
everyone has some hidden agenda, that 
they’re willing to hurt others to get what 
they want. That’s the heart of much of the 
conflict in Nova Praxis, and conflict makes for 
excitement.
But the reality is that most are good people. 
You don’t get a high Rep-Rating by climbing 
over bodies to get to the top; you get it 
because people genuinely like you. 
The people who guide the Coalition, the 
Senators and high-ranking House members, 
were put there because people like them. To 
the public they appear honest, charming, and 
considerate of those who depend on them. 
And for the most part, they really are.
But the road to hell is paved with good 
intentions, and sometimes people make bad 
decisions in the face of desperation.
Nobody thinks they’re the bad guy. Most try 
to do what they think is best for everyone.
And yet… there are some who really are just 
selfish bastards.
GM’S TOOLBOX
58

GM’S TOOLBOX
59

GM’S TOOLBOX
60
EXPERIENCE LEVELS
The default rules for character creation 
assume the PCs are experts in their respective 
fields, but are relatively new to the sorts of 
adventures and conspiracies they will find 
themselves involved in.
This section provides adjustments to these 
rules, allowing you to create characters with 
more or less experience.
To do so, simply select an Experience Level 
listed below, and adjust character creation 
as stated. Character creation is otherwise 
handled exactly as described in the Nova 
Praxis core rulebook.
Rookie
These characters are still young and very 
inexperienced. They are just starting down 
their chosen path.
Skills: Characters may be Experts or 
Generalists. Rather than beginning with the 
normal ranks for those Skill sets, Experts begin 
with only two Skills at rank 4; Generalists begin 
with only five Skills at rank 3.
Stunts: Rookie characters start with one Stunt.
Rep-Ratings: Rookie characters begin with a 
-1 penalty to their Rep-Ratings.
Expert
This is the default Experience Level. Follow 
the normal rules for character creation as 
described in the Nova Praxis core book.
Seasoned
These characters have been at it for a few 
years. 
Skills: Seasoned characters gain one additional 
rank in their lowest two Skills, or increase three 
Skills at rank 0 to rank 1.
Stunts: Seasoned characters begin with one 
additional Stunt.
Rep-Ratings: Seasoned characters begin with 
a +1 bonus to their Rep-Ratings.
Veteran
These characters have several years of 
experience under their belt. They’ve been 
running jobs, missions, or both for the better 
part of a decade.
Skills: Veteran characters gain one additional 
rank in their lowest three Skills, or increase 
four Skills at rank 0 to rank 1.
Stunts: Veteran characters begin with two 
additional Stunts.
Rep-Ratings: Veteran characters begin with a 
+2 bonus to their Rep-Ratings.
Legend
These characters have already left their mark 
on the world. Their names are well known 
in the circles they run in, and they’re seen 
as mentors and heroes by those who would 
follow in their tracks.
Skills: Legendary characters gain one 
additional rank in their lowest five Skills.
Stunts: Legendary characters begin with three 
additional Stunts.
Rep-Ratings: Legendary characters begin with 
a +3 bonus to their Rep-Ratings.
REQUISITIONS
Some organizations give their members 
equipment, weapons, armor or whatever 
else they need to do their job. It’s one of the 
perks of membership.
But there are limits to this generosity, and 
an organization typically will not appreciate 
being taken advantage of. 
A company or organization legally 
recognized by the Coalition’s Bureau of 
Business and Trade is granted a Rep-Rating 
based on its size and the Rep-Ratings of its 
owners.
As an example, a small shipping business 
with three owners, ten employees, and a 
record of quality performance might have a 
Rep-Rating of 5.
GM’S TOOLBOX
61
However, businesses and organizations 
have more “buying power” than individuals. 
When compiling purchases or otherwise 
exercising their Rep, the Rep-Rating of a 
business is effectively doubled. 
For example, the shipping company with 
a Rep of 5 effectively has a Rep of 10 when 
attempting to acquire shuttles, loading 
cranes, or other equipment.
A member of an organization allowed to 
make requisitions is granted a Requisition 
Rating, or “Req-Rating.” Their Req-Rating 
begins as their personal Rep-Rating plus the 
Rep-Rating of their organization (max 10).
Some large organizations may be broken 
down into sub-groups or subsidiaries, each 
of which may have a lower Rep-Rating than 
the parent organization.
 If a PC wants to requisition something, they 
use their Req-Rating instead of their Rep-
Rating. Otherwise, requisitioning is same as 
acquiring something with their Rep-Rating.
If a person’s Req-Rating begins to drop, this 
means the person has become a drain on the 
organization, and their requisitions will be 
scrutinized in the future. Extreme abuse may 
lead their requisition rights to be revoked, or 
they might even be fired.
A character that belongs to multiple 
organizations may have multiple Req-
Ratings.
Pira tes!
GM’S TOOLBOX
62
SEQUENCES
The rules for Sequences are used when the 
PCs need to perform a series of actions to 
achieve a goal. Using a Sequence is similar to 
a running a conflict, and it can even involve 
conflicts. But Sequences offer many different 
ways to achieve a specific goal, usually 
through using a variety of Skills.
Sequences are useful for showcasing the 
PCs’ skills in a quick series of mini-scenes. 
They are also useful any time the party needs 
to split up to achieve a task. 
Most regular scenes take place in “real time” 
or a little slower. The speed of conversations 
between PCs often match the time elapsed 
in game, and conflicts generally only take up 
a few seconds of in-character game time. 
Sequences, in contrast, move the story 
along at a faster pace. They can turn an 
entire scene, or even a conflict, into a single 
Skill roll.
Using the Sequence rules can be useful 
when the PCs need to sneak into a secured 
warehouse, pull off a complex heist, engage 
in a high-speed chase, repair a craft full of 
posthuman aberrations, or perform other 
long, complex operations.
Setup
 ª Set the goal.
 ª Set the time between rounds.
 ª Set the difficulty. (See the difficulty chart 
in Chapter 4 of the Nova Praxis  core 
book.)
 ª Set the number of check boxes on the 
Success Track. This number should equal 
the Sequence difficulty times the number 
of participating players.
 ª Name a number of Aspects equal to the 
Sequence difficulty + 2. New Aspects can 
be added via Declarations.
Running the Sequence
Each turn, each participating PC names the 
Skill he or she wants to use and explains how 
that Skill will help achieve the Sequence 
goal. If the GM agrees that the Skill is 
relevant, the acting PC performs a Skill test 
against the Sequence difficulty. If a PC uses 
the same Skill two rounds in a row, he suffers 
a -1 penalty.
If the PC succeeds, he checks off boxes on 
the Success Track equal to the amount his 
Effort exceeds the Sequence difficulty. Once 
the Success Track is full, the PCs attain their 
goal. 
In addition, each successful test allows 
the acting player to make a Declaration or 
Assessment (depending on the Skill and how 
it was used).
While the PCs cannot change the difficulty 
of a Sequence, their chance of success can 
depend on the Aspects they use. Also, the 
GM can raise the difficulty of tests where the 
Skill being used doesn’t seem particularly 
helpful or the task described by the player 
would be exceptionally difficult.
Players can use Declarations to add Aspects 
to the Sequence or to state specific facts, 
such as “The front door is now unlocked.” 
Also, a PC can use an Assessment to learn a 
hidden Aspect of the Sequence.
Each failure allows the GM to add a 
Sequence Consequence. The GM may 
immediately initiate a scene and may also 
state a fact based on the Consequence. (For 
example, Moderate Consequence: Silent 
Alarm; “Your failed Stealth check means the 
guard heard you on the roof. He turns, spots 
you, and triggers the alarm.”) 
If the PCs cannot fill the Success Track before 
the Sequence suffers four Consequences, 
they are Taken Out and cannot achieve the 
Sequence goal. 
GM’S TOOLBOX
63
Sequenced Conflicts
As stated before, gameplay during a 
Sequence shifts to a slightly larger scale. 
When a PC uses a Skill like Firearms or Melee 
in a Sequence, this might replace the events 
that would normally take an entire conflict. 
For example, on a single successful Firearms 
test, you might bring down an entire hallway 
of bad guys.
Succeeding on a Skill test is the same as 
succeeding with any other Skill: check off  
success boxes as usual, and you can make a 
Declaration or Assessment.
Failure also works normally: don’t check 
off any success boxes, and the GM adds a 
Sequence Consequence.
However, even if you succeed on a Skill test 
in a Sequenced conflict, you may become 
injured. When you use a Skill like Firearms or 
Melee to work toward your Sequence goal 
by attacking others, you also suffer an attack. 
The rating of the Sequence’s attacking Skill 
is equal to the Sequence difficulty. If you fail 
the Skill test, this attack has a Weapon Rating 
equal to the amount you failed. 
If you use a weapon on your Skill test, add 
half of its WR (rounded down) as a bonus. If 
you have armor, add half of its AR (rounded 
down) on rolls to defend against attacks from 
a Sequence.
For example, in a Sequence where the goal 
is to board and take over an enemy ship, 
you might make a Melee test. This might 
encompass trying to enter a room and bring 
down a batch of security drones with a 
mono-edge longsword. Making a Melee test 
against the Sequence difficulty (let’s say 4), 
you’d get a +3 bonus because the WR of your 
mono-edge longsword is 7, and half of that 
rounded down is 3.
If you succeeded, you’d destroy the drones, 
check boxes on the Success Track equal to 
the amount you succeeded, and you could 
make a Declaration like The Hangar Is Clear. 
You would then suffer a physical attack from 
the Sequence with a Skill rating of 4, equal to 
the Sequence difficulty. Wearing light battle 
armor, you’d get a +2 bonus on your defense 
test.
If you failed, the Sequence would gain a 
Consequence, such as Killer Drones Have 
Secured the Hangar! You would then suffer a 
physical attack with a Weapon Rating equal 
to the amount you failed. But remember, 
armor would still help.
Sequences and Stress
As described above, using some Skills in 
particular ways can cause characters to suffer 
stress. Stress and Consequences gained from 
Sequences are recovered at the usual rate. 
This means the amount of time elapsed 
between each round can be very important. 
If the time between each round is more 
than 5 minutes or so, any stress suffered will 
clear between rounds.
Mixing Sequences and Full Conflicts
If the GM prefers, a failed Skill test can 
lead to a full-fledged conflict instead. This is 
usually best when more than one PC wants 
to take part in the fight.
Even if the PCs “win” the conflict, 
the Sequence may or may not suffer a 
Consequence depending on what happened 
during the conflict. For example, if PCs are 
trying to be sneaky to work toward their 
Sequence goal, discharging many weapons 
would almost certainly cause a Sequence 
Consequence, even if they “win” the conflict. 
In the end, they would still hurt their chances 
of achieving the Sequence goal.
If they “fail” the conflict, then they get 
killed, must retreat, or otherwise botched 
things. In any case, they almost certainly 
don’t get closer to their goal.
Because of how you can mix conflicts into 
Sequences, Sequences are a good way to 
structure an entire game session packed with 
action. Because Sequences are free form, 
you won’t often need to create elaborate 
maps of buildings, starships, alien planets, or 
the like.
GM’S TOOLBOX
64
Sequenced Favors
Sometimes you can work toward your 
Sequence goal by requesting a Favor. For 
example, if your goal is to discover the 
identity of a traitor to your House, you 
could try to get access to security data by 
requesting a Favor from someone with 
access to the local Monitors.
The normal way of dealing with Favors 
and Reputation is described in Chapter 
4 of the Nova Praxis  core book. In a 
Sequence, this process is simplified a bit.
To request a Favor in a Sequence, make 
a test with the appropriate Networking 
Skill against the higher of the Sequence 
difficulty or the value of the Favor. 
If you succeed, you get your Favor, check 
boxes on the Success Track equal to the 
Shifts you generated, and you can make 
an Assessment or Declaration.
If you fail, the Sequence takes a Sequence 
Consequence and you suffer a Rep hit equal 
to the amount you failed.
Sequences and the SINC Skill
The SINC Skill along isn’t often useful in 
a Sequence. However, it can be used to 
interact with Savant Programs to help reach 
your goal.
What you can use the SINC Skill to do 
depends on which Savant Programs you 
have. For example, Eminent Domain can 
be really handy when making Declarations 
about the environment, Delve can help you 
make Assessments about people, and so on.
Perform a SINC test like you would with 
any Skill. If you succeed, check boxes on 
the Success Track as normal, and you can 
make Declarations as well as Assessments 
depending on which Savant Programs you 
have.
If you fail, the Sequence gains a 
Consequence as usual, and you will suffer 
an amount of system stress equal to the 
amount you failed.
Sample Sequence
Infiltrating the Smuggler’s Lair (Assumes 5 PCs)
Success Track:  |  | | | 

Goal: Reach target in the secured facility.
Time Between Rounds: 5 min
Difficulty: Moderate (3)
Aspects:
 ª Warehouse Is a Front for Ego Trafficking
 ª Patrolled by Local Thugs Hired for Security
 ª High-End Physical Anti-Intrusion Tech
 ª Standard Density Mesh
 ª Known to Have Purchased Three Cerberus 
Drones
Consequences:  Mild,  Moderate,  Severe, 
 Extreme
Skills in Sample Sequence
In this sample Sequence, the PCs are 
infiltrating a smuggler’s warehouse full of 
thugs so they can recover some data.
The PCs can use any Skills in any way they 
wish, as long as they can explain how it would 
help them reach their goal. We have listed 
below some examples of useful Skills for this 
example Sequence, as well as examples of 
how their use might be described.
Assets – Bribery often works. You could buy 
off one of the thugs, or even make one 
work to help you.  
Athletics – You’ll likely use Athletics if you 
want to climb walls, bash through doors, 
and so on. 
Demolitions – Blowing holes through walls 
is a good way to get past them. You’ll need 
some explosives, of course.
Diplomacy – Sometimes you can get what 
you need by talking to the right people. You 
might even convince the thugs to join your 
side. 
GM’S TOOLBOX
65
Education – Knowing the history of the 
warehouse could be important. It may have 
been built over some access tunnels that 
you could use, for example. 
Engineering, Hardware (H.Eng) – Disabling 
the building’s power could get you past at 
least some of its automated security.
Engineering, Software (S.Eng) – If you have 
a CIST, you may be able to use it to disable 
security systems, learn the thugs’ secrets, 
predict certain outcomes (which would 
work like using SINC), and so on.
Firearms – Thugs on the roof? Snipe them 
from an adjacent rooftop. (See the “Mixing 
Sequences and Conflicts” section earlier in 
this chapter for more on using this sort of 
Skill.)
Guile – With some fast talking, you could 
pose as one of the smuggler’s contacts or 
other allies. Otherwise, you could seduce 
one of the thugs as a distraction.
Insight – Insight is useful in many Sequences 
because it lets you make Assessments. For 
example, you could perform an Insight 
test to discover that the warehouse has a 
Feared by the Locals Aspect. 
Intimidation – Some well-spoken harsh 
words, or maybe a gun to the head, can go 
a long way toward convincing a thug that 
his life isn’t worth throwing away over a 
paycheck.
Melee – Like Firearms, Melee can be used to 
remove the guards from the equation.
Networking, Apostate & House  – Using 
Networking can yield all sorts of information 
or even favors. Learning about someone on 
the inside can give you a bargaining chip, or 
you may get one of the more treacherous 
thugs to leave a door open for you. (See the 
“Sequences and Favors” section earlier in 
this chapter for more.)
Perception – Like Insight, Perception can be 
used to make lots of Assessments. It might 
allow you to notice Aspects like The Front 
Door Is Never Used or The Crates Are All 
Empty.
Research – Similar to Education or 
Networking, Research can let you determine 
facts about the location or people inside. 
These facts may come in the form of 
Assessments or Declarations.
Stealth – When sneaking into a place, simply 
not being seen is a good way to go. Sticking 
to the shadows, sliding under a laser trip 
wire—these are all ways you can use Stealth 
to get closer to your target without being 
discovered.
Strategy – This is 
one of the most 
useful Skills in many 
Sequences. You 
could use it to set up 
ambushes, isolate 
thugs, or accrue 
all sorts of tactical 
advantages in the 
form of Declarations. 
You could also 
analyze the timing 
and patterns of the 
guards’ patrols to 
figure out how best to 
exploit them. 
looking for trouble
GM’S TOOLBOX
66
As the GM, try to find out what sort of 
implied reward would get the PCs’ attention. 
Pay attention to their backgrounds and 
motivations. Because their employer has 
been watching their Extranet activity, they 
can make a pretty good guess about what 
the PCs would want. Make it personal.
The PCs may or may not already know 
each other, and they may arrive together 
or separately. It doesn’t matter whether 
they are Coalition citizens or apostates, but 
apostates may find it somewhat difficult to 
get onto the Alistair without a false CID.
The meeting is set to take place on a 
viewing platform, a large room that offers an 
impressive view of Titan. The room is closed 
off to the public, but an Ardent Lonestar 
security drone lets the PCs pass. Inside, they 
find Catalyst waiting on them.
It’s not clear whether Catalyst is male 
or female, and Catalyst is fine with being 
referred to as “he”, “she” or even “it”. In fact, 
it tends to prefer “it”.
CAMPAIGN ARCS
The proceeding section provides a number 
of campaign arcs, loose outlines of events that 
provide the skeleton of a sample campaign. 
These arcs may be played separately, or in 
sequence to create a larger story.
Arc #1 - The Setup
The Meeting
The first arc begins as the PCs are called 
together for a job. Someone needs the skills 
of a few discreet specialists. 
They receive a message from a trusted 
contact, telling them to meet someone 
who goes by the name of Catalyst. They will 
meet on a space station orbiting Titan called 
the Alistair, used to receive and refine rare 
materials. They aren’t given any details, but 
their contact implies this job may earn them 
a big Rep bump, new gear, a high-Rep false 
CID, or something else they need or want.
ca t alYst
GM’S TOOLBOX
67
assigned to mine the rings. Ships come to 
the waypoint to collect shipments of raw 
materials for their compilers or to pick up 
items too large to compile aboard their ship.
The station has a common merchant area, 
where miners and support staff barter with 
each other. There is also a hotel on the 
station, often used by miners who need a 
change of scenery and a break from the 
close confines of their ship for a few days.
How the PCs obtain the information they 
need to fulfill their contract is up to them; 
how difficult it is to obtain is up to the 
GM. This mission can be played in a single 
game session in which the PCs break into 
the station’s server array and find falsified 
documents. Or it can be played in multiple 
sessions in which the PCs must locate and 
befriend one of the smugglers before getting 
the evidence they need. Perhaps they must 
help the smugglers intimidate or blackmail 
the head of security before they are trusted 
enough to get any information about the 
smugglers’ sources.
There are a number of ways to succeed 
here.
Red Handed
At some point the PCs will happen upon 
the site of a massacre. While the PCs were 
elsewhere, someone aboard the station 
murdered everyone in one of the docks. This 
dock was worked by Pure apostates hoping 
to achieve membership in House Cipriani.
 Investigating the scene of the massacre, the 
PCs discover a dead soldier carrying three 
plates of gold. Each “gold card” is about the 
size of a thick playing card and stamped with 
specific minter’s markings.
Before the PCs can do anything else, the 
station’s security forces arrive. And, of 
course, they immediately suspect the PCs of 
the murder. After all, the PCs are newcomers 
to the station, likely carrying illegal weapons, 
and sporting a questionable past. The 
security forces attempt to arrest them.
Catalyst is tall and slender. It wears a 
biosleeve that features a feminine build but 
lacks prominent breasts. Its skin is smooth 
and lustrous, free of hair, even on its head. 
Catalyst wears a black, skin-tight bodysuit 
that flares at the waist, covering the legs 
with something resembling a cross between 
a skirt and a long coat. Atop its head rests a 
glistening ebon circlet, or perhaps a crown. 
It is delicate, ornate, and fitted with a huge 
diamond that rests over Catalyst’s “third 
eye.”
Catalyst is calm, serene, and the definition 
of grace. Its voice, like its sleeve, is neither 
masculine nor feminine, and produces a 
barely audible echo.
If asked, Catalyst explains that it is a 
representative of Chariot, a subsidiary of 
House Cipriani that monitors shipping and 
receiving for their Icarus Hubs.
Catalyst explains that one of their waypoint 
stations has been compromised, and that 
some of the employees working the station 
are part of a smuggling ring.
It offers the PCs a contract with a reward 
of something they want (at the GM’s 
discretion). Catalyst is willing to negotiate, 
but isn’t desperate. If pushed too hard for a 
better reward, it will threaten to withdraw 
the offer.
If the contract is agreed upon, the PCs take 
on the roles of Auxiliaries. They become 
deniable assets of House Cipriani, expected 
to get the job done on their own and with 
their own resources.
On the surface the job is simple. The PCs 
must deliver proof that the smuggling is 
happening. They must also give Catalyst 
at least three names of people involved. 
Finally, they must deliver any evidence they 
find about what is being smuggled and, if 
possible, the source of the contraband. If 
they can deliver the source, Catalyst will 
grant them a bonus.
Waypoint S-9 is a space station in orbit 
around Saturn. It is a supply depot for crews 
GM’S TOOLBOX
68
struggling apostate community get their cold 
fusion generator back online—easy, except 
that the generator is in an area infested with 
very dangerous wildlife or hostile drones.
Once the PCs locate a reliable contact, 
they are pointed to a mint in the Venusian 
apostate enclave of Gondolin. 
If citizens, the PCs might need to keep their 
allegiance quiet. In fact, even newcomer 
apostates are given a cold reception in 
Gondolin. The people don’t want trouble, 
but most of all, they don’t want exposure.
But all is not well in Gondolin, and they may 
be willing to cooperate in exchange for help.
Gondolin has become the staging ground 
for a number of attacks on the Coalition 
government, as well as civilian ships and 
space stations. But as much as the citizens 
of Gondolin enjoy the spoils of these small 
victories, many believe they are no longer 
worth the increased risk of exposure. A 
growing faction in the city just wants to end 
the banditry and live in peace.
If the PCs show any interest in helping stop 
the attacks, they are directed to Gondolin’s 
mayor: Camber Roche, formerly from 
France, currently a SIM, who no longer feels 
that banditry is necessary for Gondolin’s 
survival. Camber can confirm that the gold 
cards came from Gondolin, and can confirm 
that the ship that ambushed the Centurion 
vessel is owned by bandits that regularly 
pass through Gondolin. 
Roche is willing to help the PCs take down 
the bandits, and points them to Juniper 
Andrews. 
Andrews, a known accomplice to the 
smugglers, is currently being held in a 
Gondolin jail cell. She is awaiting trial for an 
assault charge. 
Juniper can tell the PCs about the bandits, 
but at first she will refuse to talk. She will 
need to be persuaded, bartered with, or 
intimidated. The reasons for the assault is up 
to the GM. 
SIM PCs, presumed guilty by association, 
are trapped behind a firewall immediately 
erected by the station’s security forces or an 
AI Monitor.
The PCs might try to resist, and they can 
get away if they get past security. However, 
the security forces will quickly resort to 
lethal force against any PC they believe to be 
dangerous.
If captured, the PCs are placed in holding 
aboard the station. And after about four 
hours, Centurions arrive to collect them.
If they escape security and manage to get 
off the station, they are able to leave just as 
the Centurion ship arrives.
The Centurion ship comes under attack 
just as it arrives. It is ambushed by the real 
killers, who used the massacre to clean up 
loose ends and to draw out a Centurion 
vessel for them to hijack. The sneak attack 
cripples the Centurion vessel, which is then 
quickly boarded by the killers trying to 
capture the ship. In the chaos, the PCs are 
able to escape. 
Once free, the PCs find themselves wanted 
by the Protectorate. Catalyst refuses to 
respond to any attempts to contact it so long 
as the PCs are wanted fugitives.
It should be clear at this point that the PCs 
will need to focus on clearing their names. 
They lack clues, save the gold cards marked 
with a prominent minter’s stamp. All gold 
mints are illegal, so the PCs will likely need 
their apostate network to point them in the 
right direction.
In the shadowy corners of the galaxy, 
knowledge rarely comes free. The PCs should 
expect to perform some favors before they 
can determine the mint’s location.
These favors might include delivering 
crates of clothing to an apostate smuggler 
on Asola; stealing for an apostate a special 
sleeve she had ordered but couldn’t pay 
for; clearing a nest of Dragon Spiders for a 
farmer on Shouye with connections to local 
food smugglers; getting an apostate’s sick 
son to a doctor on New Turin; or helping a 
GM’S TOOLBOX
69
gondolin’s domed bazaar
The PCs also learn that the bandits are due 
back soon. They can use this opportunity to 
stage a trap. Once they have defeated the 
bandits, they can get the proof they need to 
clear their names from one of the bandit’s 
mnemonic cores. 
If the PCs lack the means to access the 
collected cores, Camber Roche will volunteer 
the services of his Savant ally, Gulo, to 
extract sensies from the cores that prove the 
identities of the killers.
Arc #2 - Betrayal on Ice
Background
Rin Sakamoto, a biologist working for 
House Kimura, recently discovered a 
peculiar microbe in some material sampled 
from Saturn’s outermost ring. The samples 
originated from Enceladus, one of Saturn’s 
moons. 
The microbe, initially overlooked, was 
discovered to be able to break down and 
digest simple carbon structures, emitting 
oxygen as a waste byproduct.
 Once the PCs get her talking, Juniper tells 
them that the bandits get their weapons 
and ammo from the Naesock Processing 
Hub. They go out, score some loot, sell what 
they can in Gondolin and a few other smaller 
enclaves, and go back to Naesock to sell the 
rest and resupply.
As the GM, you can make getting access to 
the lower portion of the Naesock processing 
hub its own source of intrigue and adventure.
Alternatively, Juniper can direct the PCs 
to Abasi Buhari, an old man from Africa 
who used to run with the bandits. He has 
since retired to a life of peace and can be 
convinced to tell the PCs how to get into the 
Naesock black market.
The Naesock Bazaar
Once the PCs get access to the Naesock 
lower decks, they find a thriving apostate 
enclave and bustling black-market bazaar.
Some of the people at the bazaar can 
confirm that the bandit’s ship regularly docks 
so that the crew can rest, collect information 
about potential targets, and sell their ill-
gotten gains. 
GM’S TOOLBOX
70
Eventually, Sakamoto managed to contact 
the Talons of Freedom on Vantage. They 
had been casting their nets wide, searching 
for any technological edge they could get 
their hands on before the coming war. Their 
contacts in House Tsarya had heard about 
Sakamoto’s desire to disappear, so the Talons 
reached out to her. 
Sakamoto met up with the Talons 
on Vantage. And with their help, she 
disappeared.
Since that time:
House Kimura has begun to search for 
Sakamoto. 
House Jinzhan discovered the source of 
the microbe and sent a science team to 
Enceladus to find more.
The Talons learned about Jinzhan’s presence 
on Enceladus, and sent a team to kill them.
The Job
The PCs get word of a job through their 
contacts. A representative of House Jinzhan 
wishes to meet them.
The representative, Wei Tsou, is Pure. And 
like many higher-ranking members of House 
Jinzhan, Tsou’s Rep isn’t very high. 
He is an older man, around 120, though he 
appears to be of late-middle age. 
Tsou arranges to meet the PCs on one of 
the kill-sats orbiting Earth, which he uses to 
underscore the importance of his House’s 
involvement in the quarantine. Here, the 
horrors of the technophage are clearly 
visible, even from space.
Tsou tells the PCs that Jinzhan has lost 
contact with their science team on Enceladus. 
The operation was a secret, which is why the 
House tapped Auxiliaries instead of going 
through official channels.
Tsou offers the PCs a contract that makes 
the job worth taking, and is willing to 
negotiate a fair amount. Observant PCs get 
the impression that this mission is important 
to House Jinzhan, which they can use to 
leverage a better deal.
Modern compiled materials proved immune 
to the microbe’s attack, as they’re made of 
advanced carbon structures too complex 
for the simple bacterium to digest. But 
older carbon nanostructures, such as those 
comprising the technophage, are vulnerable.
Sakamoto’s reports indicate that the 
materials affected by the microbes reacted 
much like iron oxidation: They turned red, 
became brittle, and began to crumble. 
However, reaction to the microbe proceeded 
much more rapidly than iron oxidation, 
disabling or destroying vehicle-sized objects 
in a matter of hours.
Sakamoto concluded that the microbe could 
be used as an effective bioweapon against the 
technophage. But further research indicated 
that the microbe, if genetically altered, could 
be made to affect modern materials as well. 
The microbe, modified in this way, would 
be an extremely powerful weapon. It could 
allow anyone wielding it to strip their 
enemies of their weapons, transportation, 
and shelter.
Sakamoto’s research soon got the attention 
of her superiors within House Kimura who, 
wishing to capitalize on House Jinzhan’s 
hatred of the technophage, set up a deal 
with them. 
House Kimura presented the microbe as 
an “antiphage,” a weapon engineered to 
fight the technophage. They did not tell 
Jinzhan about its potential to affect other 
technology though, preferring to keep that 
bit of knowledge for themselves.
Sakamoto, a staunch pacifist, had no desire 
to see her work on the microbe fall into the 
hands of those who could, and likely would, 
further weaponize it. Yet she very much 
wished to see the technophage destroyed so 
humanity could return to Earth.
Fearing her research could result in further 
warfare, Sakamoto took her findings and 
went into hiding until she could figure out 
how to use it against the technophage 
without risking it becoming a viable weapon 
against other technology.
GM’S TOOLBOX
71
mid-thirties at most. She is Pure, but has a 
number of discreet bio-tech augmentations 
that give her an edge.
Sung sets the PCs up in some nice 
apartments to rest for a day, and arranges 
for them to receive their gear and ship in the 
morning after their arrival. 
Sung presents Titan as a place that is safe 
and secure, far from the worries of Talon 
ambushes.
If the GM wishes, the PCs’ gear and ship 
could be delayed, forcing them to find ways 
to stay busy on Titan until they’re ready 
to go. This is a very good place for GMs to 
insert a short scenario of their own, perhaps 
focusing on themes of transhumanism 
versus purity, or a sidebar scenario that 
delves into apostate life in a Coalition city.
Alternatively, the GM can insert some 
gameplay about the goals or backgrounds 
of one or more of the characters. The more 
personal, the better.
This is also a good place for a recurring 
villain to resurface. 
 Once the PCs’ equipment and ship are 
ready, Sung instructs them to meet her in 
one of the unused docking bays. From there, 
they take a shuttle up to one of dozens of 
space stations orbiting Titan.
Once on the station, the PCs are led to 
a docking bay containing their new ship. 
However, before they depart, a series of 
explosions go off, crippling the station and 
killing its power. The station loses gravity 
and power, and its atmosphere is vented 
into space. 
The station is boarded by a gang of combat 
drones sent by the Talons. The PCs must 
fight them off and open the docking bay 
doors. They might accomplish this with 
explosives, by restoring power, or with some 
other creative solution.
Once the ship is free, the PCs can finally 
head to the research outpost on Enceladus.
The job is simple: Go to Titan to receive 
updated instructions, and then travel to 
Enceladus. Once there, investigate why the 
scientists aren’t responding and retrieve the 
research and any other notable information.
During the meeting, the PCs pick up on 
a clue that they are being spied upon. The 
spy might be a bug, a small drone, or even a 
person hiding nearby.
Before the PCs can get off of Vantage, 
Tsou’s ship is destroyed by a bomb placed 
onboard. Soon after the explosion, the PCs 
are ambushed by Talon agents. These agents 
have orders to stop Tsou and anyone he 
talked to.
Note: It is not critical to the arc that Tsou 
be killed by the bomb. In fact, investigating 
the Claw’s current activities and stopping 
the bombing could make for a few game 
sessions’ worth of fun.
The PCs will need to fight their way off  
Vantage. The Talons prefer ambushing 
them instead of openly fighting, and favor 
discretion over all. They have a strong 
presence on the station and won’t do 
anything to put that in danger. But the Talons 
are smart, very aware of what transpires on 
Vantage, and will use their knowledge to hit 
the PCs when and where they least expect it.
Once the PCs get off the station, the Talons 
will likely try to engage them in transit. They 
don’t have to worry as much about being 
detected out in the empty silence of space. 
Even if they were detected, the Protectorate’s 
response time could be several hours.
This attack could leave the PCs’ ship 
damaged, if the GM wishes. This might force 
them to land at a spaceport for repairs. If you 
want, bartering or doing favors for repairs 
could be the source of a few adventures.
Arrival on Titan
Once the PCs arrive on Titan, they are 
contacted by another representative of 
House Jinzhan: Lian Sung. She is in her mid-
sixties, even though she appears to be in her 
GM’S TOOLBOX
72
It’s up to the PCs to figure out how they 
wish to approach the situation and what to 
do with the research if they manage to save 
it.
If the PCs give the research to House 
Jinzhan, they fulfill their contract and may 
make some potent allies within the House. 
Jinzhan will fully weaponize it, but keep the 
weaponized version secret. It will then start 
testing it on the technophage. 
If they give it to House Kimura, the work will 
eventually find its way into House Jinzhan’s 
hands in exchange for some Vulcan swarms.
If they aid Sakamoto in destroying the 
research, they make enemies of House 
Jinzhan. However, the PCs may learn later 
that the Talons made secret copies of 
everything. Fortunately, they don’t have 
anyone skilled enough in bioengineering to 
fully weaponize it. Their attempts to find a 
skilled scientist might be something the PCs 
have to deal with later. 
Arc #3 - To Be, Ort Not to Be
In this arc, the PCs are hired to do a 
straightforward, if rather difficult, job. 
By now, the PCs have likely proven 
themselves both reliable and resourceful, 
and have potentially gained the attention 
of the Tetragon. If so, they are hired on as a 
Phalanx Formation. 
If not, they are hired by House Cipriani, 
to look for the culprits in a series of recent 
hijackings. House Tsarya may have been 
involved, which is why Cipriani hired 
Auxiliaries to investigate this situation 
instead of going through official channels.
Regardless of the patron, the job is the 
same: locate and eliminate the suspected 
pirates hiding out in New Turin. 
New T urin
The pirates are lying low in New Turin, using 
one of the city’s old abandoned materials-
processing plants as a base of operations. 
Enceladus
Enceladus is the site of what could only be 
described as a massacre.
Rin Sakamoto joined up with the Talons to 
hide herself and her work. But the Talons 
eventually discovered the antiphage’s 
potential to be turned against modern 
technology. Enticed by this prospect, they 
took Rin to Enceladus in an effort to collect 
more specimens and use the lab to fully 
weaponize the microbe.
When the Talons arrived, they wiped out 
the staff’s security force. Then they forced 
Sakamoto and the scientists stationed at 
the outpost to begin work on enhancing the 
antiphage.
At this point, several factions are interested 
in the microbe.
The PCs were sent to Enceladus by House 
Jinzhan to find out what happened and 
recover the research. House Jinzhan wants 
the research at all costs and is more than 
willing to sacrifice the PCs to get it. If the 
PCs have made themselves nuisances to 
the House, it may just send someone to kill 
them—to better clean up loose ends.
House Kimura wants the antiphage and 
research so that they can use it to barter 
with House Jinzhan.
The Talons want to further weaponize 
the antiphage so they can use it in their 
upcoming campaign against the Coalition.
Rin Sakamoto wishes she had never 
discovered the microbe. She would like to 
use it against the technophage, but at this 
point she’d be happy to destroy all research 
on the antiphage.
Sakamoto, aided by a few of the remaining 
scientists, plans to destabilize the APEX 
reactor that powers the outpost. And 
given the chance, she will carry it out. She 
will attempt to upload herself as a SIM to 
escape the resulting blast, but she’s willing 
to sacrifice herself to keep the microbial 
weapon out of the hands of the other 
factions.
GM’S TOOLBOX
73
gathering forces, and get out. If they can do 
so without being detected, all the better. 
If detected, the remnants will go on high 
alert and will attempt to secret away their 
more important assets, including their war 
ships, carriers, and leaders.
If this happens, the GM could make tracking 
down those scattered assets the focus of 
several game sessions worth of adventure.
During their recon mission, the PCs 
determine that the remnant forces are 
primarily composed of the Talons of Freedom, 
as well as several dozen independent pirate 
bands. All in all, their forces number just 
over seven thousand. They have two space 
stations, which they use as local command 
stations, two carrier ships, a few dozen war 
ships, and a few hundred smaller craft. More 
importantly, they have an APEX bomb.
Most of their ships are stolen civilian vessels 
re-purposed for combat. But a sizable chunk 
of their assets consists of old ships and 
weapons salvaged from earlier conflicts and 
a recent hit on the Proch Icarus Hub.
The rebel force is small enough that the 
Coalition could just swoop in and destroy 
them, but large scale troop movements 
are not very discreet, and could not be 
accomplished without the whole galaxy 
finding out.
The Houses want to keep this whole 
situation secret. It would not do for the 
masses to learn that opposition to Coalition 
rule has grown and armed itself to such 
an extent. The Coalition works to make its 
opposition appear isolated, unstable, and 
disorganized. Supported by all the Houses, 
this propaganda campaign has largely 
been successful, and the Coalition will do 
whatever it takes to ensure it stays that way. 
Battle in the Cloud
Once the PCs deliver their report on the 
rebel forces, their Horizon tasks them with 
discreetly disrupting the rebels. The crew 
is directed to begin a campaign of guerrilla 
warfare, assassination, and sabotage. 
They have allies within House Turin, which is 
how they came to seek hospitality there.
The pirates have secured their base with 
black-market security drones and have used 
some surplus mining equipment to expand 
their base deeper into the ground.
At first sight of the PCs, the leader of the 
pirates will attempt to flee to safety, blowing 
the tunnels beneath the plant to cover her 
tracks.
Even if the leader escapes, the PCs can find 
details that, when given to their patron, 
allows them to identify her as Rusila Alvid. 
Rusila spends a lot of her time in virtualities 
and is a regular at the Rusty Jug Pub in 
Chicago. 
Once the PCs (or their patron) identifies 
Rusila, they are sent after her.
Virtual Manhunt
Capturing Rusila can be the focus of any 
number of game sessions. The GM can make 
it as easy or as difficult as he wishes. Rusila’s 
penchant for virtualities will give the PCs 
many opportunities to delve into all sorts 
of virtual environments as they track Rusila 
through a potentially endless array of bizarre 
locations.
Once Rusila is captured, she eventually 
gives up her contacts within House Turin, 
which leads to the discovery of remnant 
forces massing in the Oort cloud.
Promotion
If the PCs were not already operating as 
a Phalanx Formation, they will get that 
opportunity now. 
Their patron hands them over to a new 
handler, a member of House Silva by the 
name of Horizon. Horizon is the PCs liaison 
with Oversight. 
The Oort Cloud
Horizon informs the crew that they are 
needed to recon the Oort cloud. They must 
get in, learn as much as they can about the 
GM’S TOOLBOX
74
Revelations
During their campaign against the rebels, 
the PCs discover that House Tsarya has 
been secretly providing aid to the rebels, 
funneling them supplies, weapons, and intel 
through chains of many plausibly deniable 
agents. The House has disguised its activity 
very well: even the rebels don’t know that 
Tsarya has been helping them.
Specifically, the PCs can find some kind of 
evidence that points to General Stanislaw 
Markov as the person most responsible for 
Tsarya’s involvement. When discovered, 
Markov attempts to cover up or destroy the 
evidence.
Markov also feeds information about the 
PCs to various mercenary forces, and he 
taps Second Chances to help ensure that 
A number of sample missions are listed 
below, though the GM is encouraged to 
come up with her own ideas tailored to the 
PCs’ particular strengths and weaknesses.
 ª Find and recover the APEX bomb. It is 
hidden in a now-defunct Federation 
military installation on Chengdan. The 
installation has working defenses and 
anti-air weaponry.
 ª Eliminate or capture one of the rebel’s 
more charismatic leaders. 
 ª Bring down a tactical asset, such as a 
ship or possibly a space station.
 ª Extract an asset, such as an informant 
behind enemy lines.
 ª Cut supply lines by eliminating the 
rebel’s compilers or preventing their 
use. The Oort cloud is technically 
outside of Coalition space, so compilers 
only work when activated by a Savant 
or certain types of CISTs.
 ª Keep the rebels from obtaining assets 
from black-market hubs, such as 
New Turin or the Naesock market, or 
from raiding lightly defended military 
installations. More importantly, stop 
them from getting Vulcan swarms.
 ª Determine how the rebels are getting 
food from Shouye, then intercept and 
destroy a food delivery convoy traveling 
to a Shouye spaceport.
 ª Help another Phalanx Formation 
escape a bad situation behind enemy 
lines.
The Coalition will provide the PCs with some 
aid but won’t mobilize troops or do anything 
that would draw widespread attention to 
the conflict.
The PCs are not the only crews at work, 
however. They are one of eight Phalanx 
Formations tapped to engage the rebels.
If a Phalanx team gets in trouble, the 
Tetragon may direct another Formation to 
provide backup or extraction. But they won’t 
commit official Protectorate forces.
Carthage
Eventually the Formations cripple the 
bulk of the rebel forces, whose leaders 
retreat to a hidden base on the planet 
Carthage, recently discovered by far-
ranging apostates. Using a Vulcan swarm 
and materials from several damaged 
ships, the rebels have built a small fortress 
there.
Carthage was discovered a few years ago, 
but has been kept secret. A barren rock, 
the world has little indigenous life, and 
the life that does manage to scrape by is 
very dangerous. Only the strong survive 
on a planet with almost no liquid water or 
native flora. It is a blasted world of black 
rock, white sand, unstable tectonics, and 
deadly predators.
Carthage has a breathable atmosphere 
of hot, extremely dry air. Gravity is slightly 
lower than Earth normal, despite being 
almost twice as large.
By day the temperature reaches as high 
as 65 degrees Celsius. By night it can falls 
to −25 degrees Celsius, lit by the dim red 
light of a huge, blood-red moon. 
GM’S TOOLBOX
75
During the ensuing battle, the PCs are 
contacted by Malachite, a Grigori and 
member of House Tsarya. Malachite tells 
them that they’ve detected a small rebel 
force trying to flank the Coalition forces by 
passing through a nearby canyon. He directs 
the PCs to cut them off and eliminate them.
Malachite tells General Markov to do the 
same, sending both groups out of the main 
battle and into the canyon. 
There are no rebel troops in the canyon. 
Once both groups become isolated from 
the main battle, Malachite tells the PCs to 
kill Markov and his men, putting an end to 
the rebel forces’ leadership and Markov’s 
treachery.
Arc #4 - Scholae Palatinae
The Tetragon rewards the PCs for their 
efforts by offering them a commission as 
one of the first Scholae Palatinae units. See 
pg.  85 for more on the Scholae. 
The PCs are put in command of a very high-
end ship, complete with an experienced 
crew, and seemingly limitless resources to 
carry out their missions. From now on, they 
receive orders directly from Admiral Drivas 
at the Tetragon.
Among the crew is an ace pilot (or co-pilot if 
one of the PCs would rather pilot), a medical 
staff, a science team, a security & assault 
team, and Tejun.
Tejun is a member of House Kimura and 
a SIM. She is responsible for advising the 
Scholae on matters of public relations, law, 
and politics. In many ways, Tejun is the voice 
of the Coalition as well as Admiral Drivas’ 
eyes and ears. She is loyal to the Tetragon 
first and the PCs second.
The ship and crew typically fill passives role 
in missions. The ship is used for transport, 
insertion, and extraction. While it does have 
weaponry and armor, its main function is to 
provide support and transportation for the 
Scholae.
Apotheosized PCs are not only killed, but 
deleted.
If the PCs present evidence of Markov’s 
treachery to the Tetragon, they are told 
that the Tetragon will take over further 
investigations. Many of the Tetragon’s 
admirals already know, or at least suspect, 
that House Tsarya is involved with the rebels. 
But the dirty truth is that the other Houses 
have strong alliances with House Tsarya, and 
they do not wish to strain those relationships 
by revealing the existence of the rebel forces 
or Tsarya’s ties to them. So the Tetragon, for 
the most part, tries to sweep Tsarya’s illicit 
involvements under the rug.
Worse, Markov is not acting alone. 
Someone, or something, is directing him. 
Worse, this same mysterious force is also 
directing one or more of the admirals at 
the Tetragon, ensuring Markov’s crimes will 
never be made public. It, or they, could even 
be influencing some of the other Phalanx 
Formations.
The exact nature of this force remains 
unclear. Perhaps the rumors of the Unseen 
Court are true. Or perhaps Markov is being 
influenced by War, one of the Fallen, and a 
self-proclaimed herald of the end times.
The Battle of Carthage
The Tetragon directs all of the Phalanx 
Formations to assault the rebel base.
The mission is under the command of the 
Grigori, a Scholae Palatinae crew that largely 
directs the battle from their ship. 
While the operation is far from Sol, it still 
isn’t official. The Tetragon gives each House 
permission to send a few hundred marines, 
who serve as mercenaries under the banner 
of the 4th Legion.
A general from each House leads his troops. 
Not surprisingly, House Tsarya chooses 
General Markov.
The generals are required to obey the 
Grigori, who generally prefer to direct the 
action instead of taking part in it.
GM’S TOOLBOX
76
Once the PCs get their ship and become 
active-duty Scholae, they are set upon their 
first mission.
The day-to-day affairs of the Scholae are 
generally pretty quiet. Their ship has a jump 
drive, allowing them to survey new star 
systems. This keeps their pilot and science 
teams busy, during which time the Scholae 
can train or relax until needed.
Below is a series of linked missions that the 
Scholae are called upon to perform. They 
take place in the order listed, but the GM 
can squeeze other missions in between if 
desired. 
The security team is composed of fifty 
well-trained marines, whose primary duty 
is to maintain order on the ship and repel 
borders. In some cases, the PCs can order 
a small detachment to leave the ship and 
secure hostile areas for the Scholae
To compensate for this responsibility, the 
Scholae are granted virtually unlimited 
access to the ship’s armory. Instead of paying 
for it themselves, they may requisition the 
gear they need to complete their missions. 
The Tetragon does not offer an unlimited 
budget, but as a general rule, the PCs 
should be able to requisition items from the 
Tetragon as if their Rep-Rating were 2 levels 
higher than it actually is.
SCHOLAE ON THE BRIDGE
GM’S TOOLBOX
77
On the Hunt
House Cipriani responds by sending an 
Auxiliary team after the thieves. But after a 
few weeks, they lose contact with them. The 
last piece of communication indicated that 
the Auxiliaries were jumping to Sanctuary.
House Cipriani almost sent another 
Auxiliary crew to Sanctuary, but the Tetragon 
stepped in. The existence of Sanctuary is not 
public knowledge, but the Tetragon has been 
observing the planet for some time now. 
The people of Sanctuary believe themselves 
hidden. For the most part, that is true. 
However, higher-ranking members of ICON, 
and certain Tetragon officials, have known 
about it for some time. They simply haven’t 
acted on this knowledge because Sanctuary’s 
existence has proven beneficial to certain 
influential decision makers.
Sanctuary
The Tetragon tasks the Scholae with 
traveling to Sanctuary to find Cipriani’s 
missing Auxiliary crew. More importantly, 
they must find out what happened to the 
design specs for the harvester.
This job would normally be assigned to a 
Phalanx Formation, but the Tetragon wants 
someone with better resources and a track 
record of (at least perceived) loyalty to take 
the lead. 
The Scholae need to jump to Sanctuary, 
orbit in secret, and sneak down to the planet 
unnoticed. Once there, they must find the 
missing Auxiliary crew.
The Tetragon puts the Scholae in touch with 
Concetta Allegro. Allegro is officially there 
to provide the Scholae the information they 
need to track down the missing Auxiliary 
crew. Unofficially, she can use Cipriani back-
channels to help the PCs accomplish their 
mission. She is well-connected within both 
the Houses and apostate communities, and 
can pull strings to get things done off the 
books. Unsurprisingly, Tejun dislikes and 
distrusts her. 
Power Outage
The PCs receive word that one of the smaller 
power plants on Mercury has just exploded. 
It is believed to be a terrorist attack, but the 
Protectorate cannot confirm it.
First responders and medical teams are on 
site. House Cipriani has specialists en route.
Admiral Drivas suggests that the PCs 
monitor the situation from their ship, 
preferably without revealing themselves.
Emergency crews work to isolate the 
damage, shut down connecting systems, and 
search for survivors. While this is happening, 
an Auxiliary crew breaks into one of the 
research facilities. They kill most everyone 
in the building and work their way into the 
planet’s Archive research labs.
Thankfully, someone—somehow—
managed to set off an alarm before being 
killed. With everyone else busy with the 
aftermath of the explosion, the PCs find 
themselves in the best position to respond 
to the alarm. If the local Protectorate forces 
know of the Scholae’s presence, they directly 
ask the PCs to assist in the chaos. 
The Archive research labs are a mess. The 
Auxiliaries blew open the main doors and 
stormed the complex, killing witnesses and 
security forces as they went. Worse, their 
Savant hacked the security mainframe, 
deploying all security drones against 
everyone but their crew.
Fighting both the crew and the security 
drones, the PCs eventually find the crew’s 
leaders in one of the research labs. 
It is too late, though. The Auxiliaries have 
uploaded the data they sought to an off-site 
server array. And if it looks like they can’t 
escape, they put PAc bolts through their own 
mnemonic cores.
Further investigation reveals that the 
Auxiliaries stole some prototype design 
specifications from House Cipriani: plans 
for a device called a harvester, a huge 
ring-shaped device that captures ambient 
antimatter in space.
GM’S TOOLBOX
78
sent after. They killed the Auxiliaries and 
now possess two of their mnemonic cores. 
Unaware that the PCs are Scholae, the 
thieves determine it is in their best interest 
to kill them as well.
The thieves will try to ambush the PCs 
whenever convenient. If they die, they are 
resurrected and try again. To stop them from 
being resurrected, the PCs must find their 
hideout and resurrection chamber.
As always, resurrection comes with a 
cost. Each time the thieves resurrect, they 
become a bit more unstable. It’s also not 
cheap, especially on Sanctuary, so the quality 
of their sleeves gets worse and worse as the 
PCs dispatch them.
When the Scholae finally track down the 
thieves, they discover a mnemonics lab run 
by a local black-market dealer of augs and 
sleeves.
As the PCs investigate, they find out that 
the thieves had been able to afford their 
equipment and operation because of a rather 
large, and recent, payday. They were paid in 
gold, but the source of the gold cannot be 
determined.
Once they discover the mnemonic cores of 
House Cipriani’s missing Auxiliary crew, the 
Tetragon orders them to turn the cores over 
to them immediately.
Luna
Analyzing the thieves’ cores, CIST-wielding 
mnemonics engineers at the Tetragon reveal 
that the thieves were backed by House 
Dalianis and that the harvester design was 
sent to a server array on Luna.
They also discover that the thieves sent 
forks of themselves to another back-alley 
resleeving facility on Luna.
The Tetragon seals all of this as top secret. 
Admiral Drivas then briefs the Scholae and 
directs them to find the server hosting the 
harvester design files on Luna.
When the Scholae arrive, they discover the 
aftermath of a grisly murder. 
The GM can use this opportunity to 
introduce the PCs to Sanctuary. Like 
anywhere else, Sanctuary sports a mix of 
upstanding citizens and trouble makers. But 
most just want to survive and live in peace 
apart from the Coalition.
Life on Sanctuary isn’t always easy. Without 
compilers, the people have to get by with 
trading—or scavenging from a rather 
inhospitable planet. If the PCs help the 
people of Sanctuary in any meaningful way, 
the people become more cooperative, and 
they likely gain the attention of a mysterious 
third party.
The Seraphim are interested in Sanctuary, 
and do what they can to protect it. Their  
influence may well be what keeps the 
Coalition from crashing down on the planet. 
And it is one of their agents who offers help 
when the opportunity presents itself.
This aid can come in the form of unexpected 
sniper support downing enemies during an 
attack, a door opened when it should have 
been closed, a note slipped under a door, or 
whatever else is needed to move the story 
along.
 The agent’s name is Geist, but she will not 
speak to the PCs or directly contact them if 
she can help it. If captured, Geist tells the 
PCs that she has been directed to help them 
by her benefactors, but won’t disclose their 
names, nature, or location.
That’s not to say that capturing Geist should 
be easy. She is a Savant and wears a heavily 
augmented Synthesized biosleeve. She is 
also an expert in stealth and evasion.
Through the Scholae’s investigations, which 
could take one or more game sessions, they 
discover that the hunters have become the 
hunted.  
When the PCs start snooping around for 
Cipriani’s crew, they are noticed by the 
(recently resurrected) terrorist thieves 
from Mercury, the thieves’ recently hired 
mercenary allies, or both. These are the 
thieves House Cipriani’s Auxiliary crew were 
GM’S TOOLBOX
79
together by Castor, a member of his crew. 
People hate him, but they love to hate him. 
And as a result, he maintains a high Rep.
The doctor’s sensie module also shows 
Castor downloading the harvester files and 
transmitting them to their superiors.
It also shows that Castor was contacted 
by their superiors and given new orders. 
Afterwards, the Viking and Castor talked to 
each other, and Caster informed the Viking 
that they have been instructed to go to Earth. 
The Viking and his crew have not yet left  
for Earth—and they aren’t hard to find. The 
location of the Viking’s home on Rho isn’t 
public knowledge, but its takes little effort 
to discover that he regularly hangs out at a 
Lunar club called the Hole.
Confronting the Viking can quickly turn 
violent. If a fight breaks out, Castor—who 
rarely leaves the Viking’s side—uses his Fog 
of War CIST to make sure it doesn’t go public.
In combat, the Viking will fight until the PCs 
are dead, he is dead, or Castor can convince 
him to flee. If they are killed, The Viking and 
Castor both resleeve aboard the Meatlocker. 
They have high-end remote backup modules, 
and Castor would have an up-to-the-minute 
sensie streamed and stored onboard. So 
upon resurrection they’ll know exactly what 
happened to them.
Both resleeving facility’s staff and the 
thieves have been killed by a Knight. Their 
cores, if they had any, have been destroyed. 
Fortunately, the late doctor running the 
facility had a backup sensie module stored in 
his right calf.
The sensie module shows, among other 
unsavory things, the death of the doctor at 
the hands of the Knight.
The Knight works with a team of ex-marines 
aboard their ship, the Meatlocker. His name 
is Traeger, also known as the Viking. A former 
Legionnaire, he now serves House Dalianis in 
a heavily augmented Ursus sleeve. 
Research into the Viking reveals that he 
nearly lost his position due to a number of 
misconduct violations. 
The Viking seems to revel in bloodshed. 
Resleeved too many times, he has begun to 
fragment heavily. Because of his increasing 
instability and extreme ferocity, House 
Dalianis has begun to reduce the number of 
missions they assign to him, and the missions 
they do assign are simple and relatively 
nonviolent. This has left the Viking frustrated 
and unsatisfied.
That’s why he was willing to take this 
assignment. It was the best (by his standards) 
he could get.
The Viking is a bit of a celebrity. He regularly 
posts sensies and documentaries put 
A Scholae carrier
GM’S TOOLBOX
80
LEGACY OF THE TECHNOPHAGE
had been researching ideas related to the 
harvester before the Exodus. The Viking is 
going to Bremen to collect that research for 
House Dalianis. This research is needed to 
complete the harvester designs stolen from 
House Cipriani’s R&D facility on Mercury.
Just as the meeting with Mogi is coming 
to an end, he suddenly panics. Like most 
members of House Jinzhan, Mogi is Pure. 
He needed to use an ego channel to log 
into Stygia, leaving him helpless in the real 
world—where the Viking has found him.
Before killing Mogi, the Viking makes 
him deliver a message to the PCs: He will 
complete his mission, and after that he will 
be coming for them. 
Soon after the Scholae’s encounters with 
the Viking, Tejun informs the PCs that the 
Viking has met with a representative of 
House Jinzhan to work out the details of 
their passage through the quarantine. The 
House Jinzhan rep is named Mogi (Korean 
for “Mosquito”) and has come forward to 
the Protectorate about their dealings. Tejun 
has arranged a meeting with him in Stygia.
Mogi meets the PCs at a hidden location. He 
tells the PCs that the Viking was planning to 
go to Earth, specifically to Bremen, Germany. 
Mogi doesn’t know the specifics of why 
they intend to go to Bremen, but the truth 
is that there is an old Keppler Shipyards 
research and manufacturing facility there. 
Keppler is one of the companies that would 
eventually go on to become House Dalianis, 
and the scientists and engineers there 
GM’S TOOLBOX
81
Earth
Even the Tetragon doesn’t have the 
authority to legally breach the quarantine, 
so the Scholae will need to find their own 
way onto the planet.
The PCs may find it possible to slip a small 
craft, running on minimal power, through 
the quarantine, to the beanstalk in Kismayo, 
Somalia.
Of course, getting to Bremen from 
Somalia will be difficult, especially with the 
technophage’s war machines on patrol. 
The PCs may be able to find functional 
transportation or perhaps have some 
delivered.
This won’t be easy. Surviving on Earth is no 
simple task.
Because Somalia was largely ignored during 
the battle with the technophage, the swarm 
is pretty sparse there. While the PCs will 
likely encounter some form of drone once 
or twice a day, they’re unlikely to see much 
of the technophage’s swarm form. However, 
they may see a mass of it pouring into the 
ocean as it passes through the region toward 
the Marianas Trench.
The more populated an area once was, the 
more drones now patrol it. These drones 
are absolutely merciless killing machines. 
While they were first designed to wipe out 
anything larger than a small dog, they have 
since modified their parameters to focus 
on humanoids. They are primarily drawn to 
noise, electromagnetic emissions, and heat. 
And they have no difficulty hunting at night.
The wildlife of Earth is diminished, but most 
species still exist. In fact, with humanity 
gone, animal life has begun to thrive. The 
technophage still kills chimps and apes, 
however, as well as larger animals such as 
elephants and camels.
As far as anyone can tell, no humans remain 
on Earth. 
Bremen
Once the Scholae arrive in Bremen, they 
must battle through technophage drones to 
the Keppler Shipyards R&D facility.
They’ll need to power up the facility, locate 
and obtain the research data, and set up 
communications with their ship.
But before they can leave, the Viking 
arrives. After its crew cuts a deal with House 
Jinzhan, the Meatlocker is allowed through 
the quarantine to kill the PCs. 
The Viking, in his quest for vengeance, went 
to House Cipriani for help. House Cipriani, 
which has a virtual monopoly on the power 
market, has the most to lose if the harvester 
designs fall into the hands of another House.
Knowing this, the Viking got House Cipriani 
to make a deal with House Jinzhan, allowing 
him passage to Earth and back.
House Cipriani has other plans, though. If 
the Viking gets the data, they instruct him to 
upload it. Then they’ll signal House Jinzhan 
to destroy the Meatlocker. 
The inevitable fight against the Viking draws 
the attention of the technophage, leading 
more drones to descend on the PCs.
The PCs are then presented with a choice:
Concetta Allegro contacts them on behalf 
of House Cipriani. She says she can help 
them get off the planet in exchange for the 
harvester design data.
If they accept Allegro’s offer, she activates a 
secret bomb that House Cipriani had placed 
on the main Jinzhan cruiser covering the 
area. 
In the chaos, a stealth dropship rescues the 
PCs and returns them to their ship.
If the PCs refuse Allegro’s offer, they will 
have to find their own way off of Earth. 
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
82

GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
83

GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
84
GHOSTS IN DARKNESS
This scenario is designed to introduce 
new players and GMs to the Nova Praxis 
setting. It contains an overview of events 
that happened prior to the scenario’s start, 
a synopsis of events to come, and advice for 
GMs who want to expand and customize the 
scenario.
Ghosts in Darkness assumes one GM and 
four players. Create characters using the 
standard creation rules, though you could 
instead just give the players copies of the 
sample characters from the Nova Praxis 
core book. At least two PCs need to have 
undergone Apotheosis. Otherwise, the GM 
will need to rework many of the scenario’s 
details.
The scenario begins with the resurrection 
of the PCs. Apparently, they had been killed 
and were restored from backup after a 
few months. Pure PCs will have a different 
introduction, but most of the adventure will 
focus on investigating what happened to the 
Apotheosized PCs between their last backup 
and their recent resurrection, discovering 
why they were killed, and getting caught in 
the Shadow War along the way.
Background
The Apotheosized PCs in the crew received 
notice of a salvage contract from one of their 
usual contacts. The contact directed them 
to Kestrel, a Kimuran Astralist and apostate 
sympathizer located on Asola.
The PCs met with Kestrel, who explained 
that his client wanted them backed up 
before giving the details of the contract. This 
is a fairly standard procedure for Auxiliary 
contracts, as it protects the House should 
the Auxiliaries be killed. 
Kestrel is a “talent acquisition specialist” 
for several clients. In this case, he offered 
a contract from Expanse Worldsystems, 
a subsidiary of House Tsarya. The person 
behind the contract is Isabella Nowak, a high-
ranking Tsaryan representative and head 
of Expanse Worldsystems. As part of their 
contract, however, Kestrel is not allowed to 
divulge Nowak’s identity.
The contract required the crew to travel 
to an outpost belonging to House Kimura. 
This outpost, believed abandoned, was in 
geosynchronous orbit around a recently 
discovered planet designated RS-412, aka 
Opportunity Four. 
The crew’s job was to visit the outpost, take 
inventory, and determine if anything left was 
worth salvaging.
They were warned that, while the planet 
apparently had little to offer, the outpost 
might now house pirates, remnant forces, 
or other vagrants or vultures. If so, the crew 
was expected to deal with them.
When the crew arrived at the outpost, they 
were attacked by the outpost’s automated 
defenses. The ship and the outpost were 
damaged in the battle, and the crew was 
captured. 
On board the outpost, they discovered 
that a subsidiary of House Kimura, called 
Mindscapes, was performing illegal 
mnemonics research. Any Pure characters 
with the crew were killed. The others had 
their cores removed, and their egos were 
merged into one. 
The hybrid ego called himself Chimera. A 
massive breach of the Humanity Preservation 
Act—a fact he knew well—he faced death 
and erasure if captured. 
To protect himself, Chimera set about 
erasing information from the PCs’ private 
and public records, as well as any clues to 
what happened to the PCs and Chimera’s 
location. This information included Extranet 
interactions, passwords, and intimate 
knowledge only the PCs would possess. 
When the PCs—now dead or merged—
went four days without contacting Kestrel, 
he became alarmed. When he reported this 
to Nowak, she declared them dead and the 
mission a wash. 
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
85
Making it Yours
The “chain of events” below describes the most likely course of events for the PCs. But PCs will 
be PCs, and its fairly likely that they will go off on some tangent or come up with some other 
problem solving approach that causes them to deviate from the outlined sequence of events.
And that’s great! You can always steer them back on track later. In the mean time, as long as 
its fun and interesting, let the PCs explore their options and the world around them. Likely they 
will get themselves back on track eventually, but if the game begins to drag and it doesn’t seem 
like the PCs know what to do next, you’ll want to drop some clue or remind them of something 
somebody said to nudge them back in the right direction.
The GM should also take the time to try to customize the scenario to emphasize the PCs 
strengths and weaknesses as much as possible. Remember, this is your game. Many of the 
details really aren’t that important and can be easily changed. Maybe the PCs resurrect on 
Titan instead of Asola. Maybe Kestrel is replaced with a contact the PCs have worked with in 
the past. Maybe Nowak represents House Cipriani instead of Tsarya. 
Before starting, you should probably take another look at the PC’s Aspects and try to find a 
few places to work them in wherever possible.
In the chain of events diagram, you’ll see three triangles marked A-C. These indicate good 
points along the chain to insert tangents, points in the plot where the PCs can go off to explore 
sub-plots that may have arisen during play, or spots for the GM to interject additional scenes 
and/or her own plot ideas.
Some suggestions for tangents are:
Tangent A – Kestrel requires the PCs to do him one or more favors before he is willing to tell 
the PCs about Vantage. Depending on the desires of the GM, Kestel’s favors can be their on sub-
campaign. See the “Kestrel’s Job” sidebar on pg.  93 for more.
Tangent B – When Valare is discovered, the GM may introduce any number of complications that 
prevents her from simply telling the PCs what she knows. 
Here is one example: Valare has a remote backup module, and her fork has already been resleeved. 
She won’t help them unless they can convince her fork to merge. Her fork, knowing she died from 
vacuum exposure, does not want those memories and does not want to merge.
Tangent C – When the PCs arrive near the outpost, they immediately come under heavy fire from 
the outpost, its security drones, and perhaps some additional attackers. They also detect a distress 
signal coming from the planet.
Their ship becomes damaged and is forced to land on the planet. Their only hope of getting back 
off is to locate the source of the distress signal, a research outpost.
A small group of captives managed to trigger the distress signal before being huddled into a secure 
storeroom by Red Sun thugs. The PCs will have to take over the outpost and either use resources 
they find to repair their ship or find a new one.

GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
86
Soon after, though, Nowak’s people 
discovered that the PCs’ digital footprints 
were being cleared off the Extranet. 
Assuming she might be in danger, and a 
bit paranoid, Nowak hired a Savant named 
Valare to use a rare and powerful Savant 
Program to scrub the Extranet, wiping any 
security logs or local mesh data related to 
the PCs and their failed mission.
Once declared dead, the PCs were restored 
by their insurance policy. 
This is where the scenario begins.
The Chain of Events
Part 1 – In the Dark
The Apotheosized PCs awaken on Asola. 
Their last memory is of being backed up 
before meeting with someone called Kestrel. 
Their backups were paid for by, and stored at, 
Second Chances, a division of House Tsarya.
A quick look through their personal records 
indicates that their activity logs, much of it 
very private, has been cleansed of anything 
about the events of the last two months. 
And worse, security footage and intel related 
to their assignment has also been cleaned 
from both private and public systems. The 
only thing left is that they needed to meet 
Kestrel.
Holes in mesh data like these shouldn’t be 
possible. Kestrel has heard of this happening 
before; if the PCs can convince him to help, 
he can point them to a similar event on 
Vantage. 
Part 2 – Lots to See on Vantage
Their investigation leads them to Vantage, 
where they discover that their records were 
erased by a Savant member of the Talons of 
Freedom. 
The Savant, Valare, died during an exchange 
of goods, food, and meds for weapons, 
meant to go to Talons on the Icarus Hub in 
orbit around Proch. 
After recovering the Savant’s core, they 
learn that she was hired by Nowak, a high-
ranking Tsaryan official on the Icarus Hub, 
to wipe out any traces of the PCs’ actions 
related to their mission.
Part 3 – Civil Unrest
As the PCs arrive at the Icarus Hub, an 
explosion rocks the station. This is the first 
stage of an apostate uprising, instigated by 
The Talons of Freedom and made possible by 
Chimera. 
Resentment had been growing among the 
workers on the hub for a while, so Chimera 
decided to use this opportunity. This attack 
would allow Chimera to both get revenge on 
Nowak for sending the crew to the outpost—
which led to Chimera’s creation—and create 
additional complications for the PCs should 
they be searching for him. 
Chimera doesn’t want to be found, so he left 
behind plenty of clues linking the uprising to 
the PCs.
Nowak directs Lighthouse to contain 
the uprising and, finding the clues left by 
Chimera, flags the PCs as the instigators. The 
PCs must get to Nowak and find out what 
she knows.
As Lighthouse goes to war against the 
Talons, apostates, and PCs, Kestrel, ordered 
by his House to clean up this mess, arrives 
with a group of Red Sun enforcers. Their job 
is to kill the PCs, Nowak, and anyone else 
involved, cutting ties between Kimura and 
recent events. The Red Suns try to avoid the 
conflict, instead focusing their efforts on 
finding and eliminating the PCs. 
Nowak is on the Icarus Hub in orbit around 
Proch. If the PCs get to her before Kestrel 
does, she offers them a deal: get her off the 
hub safely, and she’ll tell them the location 
of the outpost and clear their names.
If they fail to get to Nowak first, Kestrel kills 
her. He then sends them the location of the 
outpost. 
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
87
Part 4 – Opportunity Four Resolution
The PCs leave the ruined Icarus Hub and 
head for the outpost. If they couldn’t save 
Nowak, they will be branded traitors and 
enemies of the Coalition. They are now 
effectively apostates until they can find a 
way to prove their innocence.
At the outpost, the PCs must battle Chimera 
and the outpost’s security measures. During 
the fight, the comm-buoy for the security 
system is remotely detonated, cutting off  
intersystem communications.
Once the PCs defeat Chimera and the 
outpost’s security drones, they discover 
more clues about what happened. Doctor 
Haruto Nakamura, the scientist that headed 
the illicit experiments, created Chimera. 
Chimera used his contacts and House 
Kimura’s resources to help initiate the 
mutiny on the Icarus Hub.
If possible, Chimera will try to flee in an 
escape pod to the planet’s surface. Once 
there, he will go into hiding.
Shortly after the PCs deal with Chimera and 
learn what they can, Kestrel and his Red Suns 
arrive. Before boarding the station, they try 
to disable the PCs’ ship.
Their mission is to destroy all evidence 
of Chimera, the PCs’ mission, and recent 
events. That means wiping all data storage 
devices, killing the PCs, station personnel, 
and Chimera, and blowing up the station. 
The first step is essential—the last thing they 
want is sensitive data floating among the 
debris.
Once the PCs defeat Kestrel and the Red 
Suns, they’re in the clear. But they may have 
some loose ends to deal with. 
If Chimera was killed, the PCs can find his 
mnemonic core, which they can use to prove 
their innocence in the mutiny. The core also 
implicates House Kimura in both the mutiny 
and the illegal mnemonics research, so the 
Kimurans will do anything necessary to stop 
it from being used against them.
If Chimera escaped, the PCs will need to 
apprehend him before the Kimurans do. 
v ant age st a tion
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
88
NPCs of Note
Many NPCs play major roles in this 
scenario. They know things, and can provide 
breadcrumbs for the PCs to follow to the 
answers they seek.
These characters are detailed below. 
However, Fate lets players make Declarations 
that could change elements of the story and 
facts about these characters.
GMs, you can change pretty much anything 
you wish about the characters in this 
scenario. You can also allow 
the PCs the same privileges. 
Just make sure that anything 
changed doesn’t break 
the chain of events, unless 
you’re comfortable with 
improvisation.  
Kestrel
A member of House Kimura 
and the Red Suns, Kestrel 
has taken it upon himself to 
help the poor apostates of 
Asola.
Kestrel uses his contacts among the 
Coalition and apostates to arrange deals 
between them. He is often called upon by 
discreet employers to perform dirty jobs 
with crews recruited from both factions.
Kestrel does not fully understand the depth 
of the Shadow War, but he’s beginning to 
suspect that “fixers” like himself are more 
common than most believe.
What does Kestrel Know?
 ª He hired the PCs because he needed an 
expendable party.
 ª The PCs were hired by a representative of 
House Tsarya to explore an outpost.
 ª The outpost might have been dangerous.
 ª [Secret: 5] The mesh recently blacked out 
on Vantage.
Lester Lucas
Lester is just trying to get by. A member 
of House Silva, he has been smuggling 
weaponry out of the Naesock Processing 
Hub in orbit around Neptune, trading the 
arms with Talons on Vantage.
Lester really hasn’t had a role in recent 
happenings, suffering a severe case of 
“wrong place, wrong time.”
He was making an exchange with the 
Talons when one of them was revealed 
to be a Centurion. Valare 
blacked out the mesh just 
before a grenade went off. 
Lester got behind cover and 
managed to survive, but he 
caught some shrapnel in the 
process. 
Wounded, he has been 
struggling to get by on 
Vantage. His ship, the 
Chickenhawk, has been 
impounded and docked on 
one of the station’s secure 
arms. 
Lester has been in contact with the Talons, 
who have basically taken his ship and hidden 
Valare in it. Lester wants it back so he can get 
off Vantage.
What does Lester Know?
 ª The Talons are planning something pretty 
big, and have been for several months 
now.
 ª Lester’s ship is tied to a CID, now 
possessed by the Talons. They are 
helping him survive in exchange for the 
ship, but Lester isn’t at all happy with the 
arrangement and feels like he is being 
bullied.
 ª Valare can black out the mesh.
 ª Valare’s sleeve is on the Chickenhawk.
 ª The Chickenhawk is attached to a secure 
wing of the station. You can’t get to it 
from within: security is far too tight. You 
have to get to it by exiting the station.
Secret Ratings
Nova Praxis is a game of 
mystery and intrigue, and 
some secrets are buried deep.
Secret ratings present a 
standard difficulty rating to 
uncover the secret through 
the basic use of Skills tests, be 
it Research, Favors, etc.
The GM may lower the 
difficulty of uncovering a 
secret as the PCs find clues.
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
89
Valare
A small-time smuggler with a big-time gift, 
Valare is a Savant who wrote a Program to 
cover her tracks.
Valare was an invaluable Shadow War 
asset to House Tsarya, providing cover 
and cleanup for their Auxiliary teams. But 
the more she learned about the behind-
the-scenes dealings of the Coalition 
government, the more disgusted she 
became. 
Wiping out the PCs’ tracks was her last 
mission for House Tsarya, after which she 
wanted to help the poor apostates trying 
to make lives for themselves working for 
the Houses.
She disappeared, covered her tracks, and 
joined up with the Talons of Freedom on 
Vantage. There she worked to help the 
Talons prepare to strike at House Tsarya, 
covering up smuggling operations until one 
went wrong, killing her.
What does Valare Know?
 ª Valare died when a deal went sour. One 
of her Talon compatriots turned out to 
be a Centurion in her friend’s sleeve. A 
grenade went off and she got spaced.
 ª Her sleeve and core were recovered 
and hidden in the Chickenhawk until 
the Talons could figure out how to 
resurrect her.
 ª She had been hired by Nowak to scrub 
the PCs’ tracks across the Extranet. She 
was not told why.
 ª [Secret: 5] She had been helping 
apostates and Talons move resources 
in preparation for a Talon-led mutiny on 
Proch’s Icarus Hub.
 ª [Secret: 7] Valare has heard about a 
benefactor, providing aid to the Talons 
and arranging opportunities for them 
on the hub. She doesn’t know who it is, 
but he has upped their timetable and 
may initiate the strike any day.
Fog of War (New Savant Program)
Execution Difficulty: 2
Activation Time: Simple Action
Duration: Scene
Your Daemon lashes out, infiltrating the 
local mesh network and filling it with a 
torrent of junk data.
This scrambles the mesh’s audio and 
video sensors, making it impossible for it to 
work properly and blinding the Coalition’s 
AI Monitors.
When this Program is activated, the mesh 
cannot detect any activity in the Savant’s 
affected area. The size of the affected area 
has about a radius of about 100 m, +50 m 
for each Shift generated.
If successfully executed, the mesh is 
blacked out but the disturbance is noticed. 
The AI Monitors won’t know what’s going 
on, but they will alert authorities to the 
disturbance. If the area is fairly heavily 
populated, authorities will likely arrive in 
the next scene.
If the Program is executed with Spin, your 
Daemon injects a looping scene into the 
mesh’s data stream, effectively tricking 
the Monitors into thinking that nothing is 
wrong. Anyone watching the stream won’t 
notice anything out of the ordinary. When 
the scene is over, the loop ends. 
If the scene has not drastically changed 
when the loop ends—no explosions, 
damage walls, pools of blood, for 
example—it is likely no one will notice the 
disruption.
If you score a superb result on your 
execution test, assuming no major change 
to the environment occurred, the looped 
data was injected so cleanly that even 
close inspection won’t reveal that the 
mesh data was tampered with. It may even 
be possible to change small details about 
the scene.
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
90
Isabella Nowak
Isabella Nowak sits in the center of the 
chaos, the eye of the storm. As Executive 
Administrator of Planetary Logistics, Isabella 
is charged with maintaining Tsarya’s interests 
on the Icarus Hub in orbit around Proch.
Feeling she has more than proven 
herself at the Icarus Hub, Nowak has been 
maneuvering for a promotion. But just as 
everything seemed to be going her way, it all 
fell apart. 
First the crew hired to prospect the outpost 
went missing. Now they appear to be 
undermining her by setting the apostate 
workforce in the hub’s docks against her. 
Against a burgeoning mutiny, Isabella is 
working desperately to bring everything 
back under control. And in her desperation, 
she let Lighthouse off their leash.
What does Nowak Know?
 ª Nowak got word of an abandoned 
Kimuran research station set up around 
a new planet (Opportunity Four). She 
knows where the station is.
 ª [Secret: 7] The location of the outpost.
 ª Suspecting hostile squatters or pirate, she 
hired an expendable crew (the PCs) to 
deal with them and secure the outpost.
 ª The PC crew went dark, so she declared 
them dead. Three months later, they 
were resurrected. 
 ª Soon after declaring the PCs dead, Nowak 
discovered that records of the crew’s 
activities were being purged from the 
Extranet. 
 ª Worried about the reason for the data 
purge, and fearing implication in illegal 
forking, Nowak hired Valare to wipe out 
all security logs and sensor data of the 
crew from the last few months. Nowak 
wanted to eliminate as many links as 
possible between the crew and herself.
Chimera
Born of an experiment in cutting-edge 
mnemonics technology, Chimera is a gestalt 
entity, a being made from the PCs’ merged 
egos. 
Every Apotheosized PC who had gone on 
the mission to prospect the outpost has been 
merged into Chimera and inhabits a single 
sleeve. Chimera remembers everything they 
did, knows everything about them, and fears 
them. 
Forking an ego is illegal, a very severe 
breach of the Humanity Preservation Act. 
The experiments that led to the creation of 
Chimera are far more extreme than simple 
forking—they could kill and even erase 
everyone and everything involved.
Note: Chimera can identify as male, female, 
or neither, depending on its composition. If it 
is mostly composed of male egos, it generally 
considers itself male, and likewise for female 
egos. To keep this scenario consistent, we 
will assume that Chimera identifies as male 
in the remainder of our writing.
What Does Chimera Know?
 ª Chimera has the complete memories 
of every Apotheosized PC, meaning he 
knows pretty much everything going on.
 ª He has been covering his tracks and 
distancing himself from the PCs by wiping 
data from their personal data logs and 
social networks.
 ª Chimera blames Nowak for his creation 
and the mess they’re stuck in now. Being 
somewhat insane, he has targeted her for 
revenge, which he’s facilitating by fanning 
the fires of rebellion on the Icarus Hub 
and by aiding the Talons of Freedom.
 ª [Secret: 3] The apostate uprising is backed 
by the Talons of Freedom.
 ª [Secret: 5] The Talons of Freedom were 
aided and encouraged to act now by 
Chimera.
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
91
Part 1 – In the Dark
The scenario begins as the PCs wake up in a 
resurrection chamber on Asola, about three 
months after they’d been declared dead.
They have no memory since their last 
backup, just before they started their 
mission.
Second Chances
Sleeved PCs awake in a resurrection 
chamber owned by Second Chances, a 
third-party backup service that works 
with all major insurance providers. Their 
resurrection is overseen by an apostate 
mnemonics engineer named Salvadore “Sal” 
Bendry, a SIM.
After being helped from the chamber, they 
are subjected to a quick series of diagnostic 
tests and escorted to a recovery room. 
Biosleeves are treated to a massage and a 
good meal. Cybersleeves undergo additional 
diagnostics.
SIM PCs awaken in an idyllic glade, 
surrounded by healthy trees and chirping 
wildlife. They appear seated at a wooden 
table. Sal appears across from them.
To both the sleeved and SIM PCs, Sal 
explains that they’ve been restored from 
backup and it’s been about three months 
since they were officially declared dead. It’s 
standard procedure to wait three months 
before resurrection in case any mnemonic 
cores can be recovered. Theirs weren’t.
Presumably, after taking the contract the 
PCs upgraded their sleeves and gear, leaving 
their old gear in a storage locker and their 
old sleeves on ice. Assume that the PCs’ 
current gear and sleeves are what they had 
stored before starting the mission.
Pure characters won’t be restoring from 
backups, as they have none. The GM and 
players will need to discuss why the Pure PC 
or PCs are now joining with the others.
This shouldn’t be too difficult. Perhaps the 
Pure PCs simply couldn’t join the crew on 
their last mission, but now they can.
Alternatively, the Pure PCs could be meeting 
the others for the first time. Because the 
Apotheosized PCs need transportation 
rather soon after being resurrected, they 
might sign a contract or promise a favor to 
get transportation. A Pure PC might be the 
pilot of a ship or the muscle hired to ensure 
the other PCs make good on the favor they 
owe.
Filling in the Blanks
All that the PCs remember about the 
mission is that they’d received a tip about 
a contract. They were supposed to go to 
Second Chances, get a free backup, and 
meet someone named Kestrel.
The PCs didn’t meet Kestrel before backing 
up, though, so they don’t remember anything 
about meeting him or anything after being 
backed up.
As the Apotheosized PCs’ systems come 
online, they will likely check their social 
networks to try to piece together clues about 
what happened to them. It is then that they 
make a startling discovery.
Their personal records are missing time, 
and their social network activity has been 
scrubbed. To do this, their personal passkeys 
would have been required. Any records of 
their activities—from the day before their 
backup to now—are gone.
Any friends will just say that the PCs went 
quiet after they’d taken the contract and 
went in to have their egos backed up. Silence 
like this isn’t especially unusual, though, 
as many crews are required to limit any 
unnecessary contact while running off-the-
book jobs for the Houses.
But their personal data going missing is very 
unusual indeed. It shouldn’t be possible. 
They would’ve needed to have cleared it 
themselves. At the very least, someone else 
would have had to have access to their CIDs. 
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
92
Meeting Kestrel
Kestrel, a member of House Kimura—
specifically, the Crimson and Sons 
subsidiary—is an apostate sympathizer 
and unofficial leader and spokesman for 
an underground collection of apostate 
scavengers. A mid-level Red Sun operative, 
he specializes in Shadow War operations, 
though even he doesn’t truly understand the 
depth of the conflict. 
He can be found at his shop, a small 
hole-in-the-wall establishment on Asola. 
The ARID on the door identifies the place 
simply as “Serendipity: Consultations and 
Arbitrations.”
The small shop is narrow and long, lined 
with rows of bookshelves. In reality these 
shelves hold nothing, but in AR they house a 
number of digital documents represented as 
translucent books.
In the back of the long room sits a low 
counter, where a basic merchant beta AI 
works waits. The AI takes the form of an 
attractive Asian woman in a kimono.
The AI is pleasant and willing to answer 
any questions the PCs ask. Some common 
questions and answers are below:
What is this place? or What does Kestrel do?
“You are in Serendipity: Consultations and 
Arbitrations. Our business is to help you 
resolve yours, provide you advice during 
difficult times, or serve as an objective 
third party in mediating disputes, whether 
personal or legal in nature.”
Where is Kestrel?
“I am sorry. I am not at liberty to divulge that 
information.”
Can we meet with Kestrel?
“Please hold while I check his schedule… 
Yes, Mr. Kestrel will see you now. Please, 
follow me.”
After the AI tells the PCs to follow her, the 
back wall opens to reveal a hallway leading 
into a back room. 
The room is octagonal and outfitted with 
pillows to sit or kneel upon. A very young 
man—no more than 25 years old, if he’s 
Pure—kneels on one of the pillows facing the 
door. This is Kestrel. It’s unclear whether he 
is Asian or wears a biosleeve based off of an 
Asian genetic template. 
He has silver hair that he wears a little long 
and messy, and he wears a silver silk suit, a 
white tie, and no shoes.
The Lunar City of Asola
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
93
Leaning against a wall to the side, a large 
cybersleeve—covered in Asian-inspired bio-
skin, wearing a tight gray t-shirt and military-
style fatigues—holds his arms crossed. Any 
PC who looks him over (Perception: 2) can 
see the heavy rail pistol tucked into the back 
of his pants.
Kestrel has dealt with the PCs before, 
recalling that their meeting was both 
pleasant and productive. He does not like 
unscheduled meetings, however, and only 
agreed to see them on short notice because 
of his curiosity. Having heard the PCs 
declared dead, Kestrel wants to know what 
happened.
If the PCs ask any questions, refer to what 
Kestrel knows on page  88. He will answer 
truthfully, but does not know who hired them 
or where the outpost is. He had negotiated 
with the contractor at anonymous meets in 
Stygia, and the details of the mission had 
been passed to him through an encrypted 
file, which he did not try to open. 
During the conversation, Kestrel will call up 
security footage of their last meet to make 
sure he hasn’t forgotten anything important. 
He then discovers that the footage, stored 
on his own personal mesh, has been edited. 
Anything related to the PCs is missing.
This footage should be impossible to 
access by anyone except himself, so Kestrel 
becomes very concerned. Someone able 
to delete this data would have had access 
to Kestrel’s personal server array. Further 
investigation quickly reveals that any security 
data featuring the PCs during the time of 
their mission, regardless of their location, 
has been blacked out.
This is highly unusual, so the PCs might 
search the Extranet in hopes of finding 
another instance of this happening.
This information is a rank 5 Secret, and 
can be discovered with Apostate or House 
Networking as well as with Research. House 
Networking suffers a -1 penalty, while basic 
Research suffers a -2 penalty.
Kestrel’s Job
A local Centurion is putting pressure on 
Kestrel’s people. Make him stop.
The Centurion, Tarj McClaren of House 
Dalianis, thinks one of Kestrel’s people (a 
Pure apostate named Jebediah) is selling a 
drug called Symmetry. He wants either proof, 
or his core.
The PCs can get proof by making a sensie of 
the drug deal, and its use.
Symmetry enhances a person’s mood based 
on their surroundings. So a person in a happy 
and fun place would become very happy, 
while a person in a sad place would become 
very depressed.
However the PCs do it, once satisfied, 
Kestrel tells the PCs that he had heard rumor 
of the sort of mesh blackout they are seeing 
now on Vantage. Apparently something 
bad went down there a few weeks ago, but 
nobody knows what since the record of it 
was stripped from the mesh data. 
The PCs will likely fail to uncover the secret 
on their own, but luckily for them Kestrel 
knows that a similar blackout happened 
recently on Vantage. 
He will not part with this information easily 
though. He agrees to help if...
 ª The PCs can convince him during a 
Mental Conflict. In this case, Kestrel has 
a Determination of 1; if the PCs have 
offended him, it is 2.
 ª The PCs help him get food and medical 
supplies (Cost: 8). Kestrel genuinely 
wants what is best for his people, 
the downtrodden of Asola. Some are 
apostates, but many are civilians with very 
low Rep. He can’t get it himself without 
raising suspicion.
 ª The PCs get him a new array and six VR 
links (Cost: 9).
 ª The PCs agree to do a job for him. To make 
this scenario longer, consider making this 
option the only one that Kestrel offers. 
The sidebar below offers an example job 
for Kestrel to give.
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
94
Part 2 - Lots to See on Vantage
The crew has come to Vantage to investigate 
the last known incident of a mesh blackout. 
They don’t know how or why the blackout 
occurred; they just know that a large chunk 
of mesh data was wiped a few months ago. It 
appears to have been wiped the same way as 
their own mesh presence had been between 
their last backup and recent resurrection. 
Investigating the blackout leads the PCs to 
Lester Lucas, smuggler and captain of the 
Chickenhawk. Living on the station in fear, 
Lester desperately wants to get off it before 
the Talons of Freedom decide that he knows 
too much to be left alive.
Investigating the Incident
Asking around the station can give the PCs 
enough clues to begin investigating the last 
blackout in earnest.
Either type of Networking Skill will work 
here. Research suffers a -1 penalty.
Social Skills can net the same results if 
the PCs speak to a friendly dockworker or 
Centurion. They can also get most of this info 
by intimidating a Talon of Freedom.
[Secret: 2] – The blackout happened in a 
docking bay on level 11.
[Secret: 3] – The blackout happened in 
docking bay 117 while the Chickenhawk was 
docked there.
[Secret: 4]  – The blackout was apparently 
used to hide a transfer of goods. During this 
time, witnesses heard an explosion.
[Secret: 5] – Multiple bodies were carried 
out of the dock after the explosion. Some 
sort of deal probably went sour. The captain 
of the Chickenhawk was smuggling weapons 
to members of the Talons of Freedom in 
exchange for food. He is missing.
[Secret: 6] – The Chickenhawk belongs to 
Lester Lucas, a member of House Silva. The 
ship has been moved to quarantine. Lester 
can usually be found in the the Waypoint Bar.
[Secret: 7]  – Lucas never left Vantage. 
Instead, he changed his ship’s ID and docked 
his ship in one of Vantage’s secure repair 
bays. The repair bay is located at the end of 
a long “arm” protruding from the station. To 
get to the ship, you must walk down a heavily 
secured passageway or exit the station and 
travel down the arm on the outside.
Finding Lester
If the crew asks around enough, word will 
get back to Lester. He has a handful of allies 
among the low-Rep civilians and the few 
apostates onboard. If possible, he will try 
to arrange a meeting on one of the station’s 
observation decks.
If the crew discovers where Lester is, they 
can go to Waypoint to try to find him.
In any case, Lester is looking for a crew just 
like the PCs to help him out. The Talons of 
Freedom have a hold on Lester, and he wants 
to get away from them.
Lester will tell the PCs what he knows if they 
agree to help him out. He just wants to get 
his ship back and to get off the station.
The Chickenhawk
The PCs need to get to Valare’s sleeve—
more specifically, her mnemonic core. Right 
now, both are stashed on the Chickenhawk 
awaiting someone friendly to the Talons to 
retrieve them and resurrect her.
The Chickenhawk’s docking umbilical has 
been damaged. Lacking this, it is instead 
attached to Vantage’s arm with a mag-lock 
connection on top of the ship. This means 
the PCs must go outside the station to get 
into the ship, even if they went down the 
inside of the arm. 
The ship’s only entrance is a sealed door 
that will only respond to the CID of one of 
the local Talons of Freedom.
Unless the PCs can get through the tight 
security inside the repair arm, they must 
enter the ship by traveling outside the 
station. 
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
95
If they insist on going down the inside of the 
arm, they’ll contend with three sealed blast 
doors and a security checkpoint manned by 
three Centurions and four Lonestar drones.
If they go outside the arm, they won’t have 
to bother with station security, but Pure 
and biosleeved PCs will need vacuum suits. 
Cybersleeved PCs won’t need suits, but they 
will need mag boots, suits with zero-g assist 
jets, or both.
There are only a few good places to exit the 
station. There are external mesh sensors that 
the PCs must avoid, but Lester has studied 
the route and can show them how to best 
avoid notice. 
Once the crew parts ways with Lester, the 
Talons will attempt to capture and interrogate 
him. Unless the PCs take extreme measures 
to keep Lester safe, the Talons will succeed 
and Lester will cave to the interrogation. He 
will tell them everything he knows. And then 
they will kill him.
If the PCs take Lester’s advice, they won’t 
need to make tests to avoid the mesh sensors 
outside the station. However, if Lester is 
captured and interrogated, the Talons will 
know exactly where the PCs plan to exit the 
station.
If Lester spilled the plans, the PCs will find 
his body lashed to the station’s hull as they 
work their way to the ship. As soon as they 
can make out his identity, they are ambushed 
and fired upon by the Talons.
If Lester wasn’t captured, the PCs may be 
able to sneak into the ship before being 
noticed.
Some Talons are hiding on the ship, using 
the arm’s support ribs as cover, as well as on 
the bottom of the station’s arm. The number 
of Talons in wait equals the number of PCs 
plus 1. One of the Talons has the CID needed 
to get into the ship.
At least one Talon, hiding on the ship itself, 
will have a sniper rifle. The others have 
assault rifles and will rush to reach the 
optimal firing range to the PCs.
Meeting Valare
Once the PCs get to the Chickenhawk, they 
discover Valare’s sleeve. She was killed when 
a hell ball went off, damaging the umbilical 
connecting the Chickenhawk to Vantage. 
Valare’s sleeve is in the Chickenhawk’s 
engine room. The biosleeve is extremely 
swollen and covered in bruises. Dried blood 
surrounds every orifice. Her mnemonic 
core is intact and contains recordings of 
everything up to her death.
If Valare is brought up in VR, it’s clear 
that she’s suffered extreme psychological 
trauma from having died in vacuum. Her last 
memories were of a deafening explosion, 
fire, and rapid decompression. As a result, 
she has suffered an Extreme Mental 
Consequence. 
Mnemonic editing may be in order. If she is 
aided, or at least calmed, she can tell the PCs 
what happened to her.
Valare can also tell the crew that she had 
been hired by House Tsarya to scrub their 
net presence. While she doesn’t know where 
their cores are, she agrees to tell them the 
name of the person who hired her to wipe 
their Extranet fingerprints—if they agree 
to needle beam her ego to her insurance 
provider on Rho.
Once the PCs appease Valare, she points 
them to Nowak, the Tsaryan official who 
offered their original contract. Nowak is 
the Executive Administrator of Planetary 
Logistics, based out of the Icarus Hub in orbit 
around Proch.
She also tells them that the deal that led to 
her death was an exchange of food and meds 
for weapons meant for Talons on the Icarus 
Hub. She had met the Talons on the Icarus 
Hub when she went to meet Nowak, and 
she’d been working with them on Vantage 
since she completed Nowak’s job. 
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
96
The Chickenhawk
If the PCs check the 
Chickenhawk’s registration, they 
find it registered to a false CID 
that Lester Lucas had been using. 
This CID is carried by a Talon.
The Chickenhawk has suffered a 
Mild Consequence of Unable to 
Safely Dock due to its damaged 
umbilical system. Until this is 
repaired, the ship cannot establish 
a pressurized connection to 
another ship or station. Instead, 
it must attach itself using a mag-
lock system; anyone entering 
or exiting the ship must expose 
themselves to space. 
Size: 
4      Refresh: 3
Cost: 16  Structural Stress: 5
Aspects: S ystem Stress: 6
 ª Cargo Ship Repurposed for Smuggling
 ª Acquired from a Dead Smuggler
 ª “Nothing to see here, move along.”
Specialty Aspects:
 ª Hidden Smuggling Compartments (Structure)
 ª Military-Grade Nacelles (Speed) 
 ª Hi-Resolution Spectrum Analyzer  (Sensors) 
Capabilities:  Crew 0,  Maneuverability 2, Structure 1,  
Sensor 2, Speed 2,  Systems 2,  Weapons 1
Features: Crew Quarters, Escape Vehicle, Jump Drive,  
Mesh System,  Atmospheric Flight,  Space Flight, VTOL,  
Cyber Warfare Suite,  Cargo Hold,  Mnemonics Lab and 
Resurrection Chamber,  Auto Cannon,  Workshop

GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
97

GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
98
What are the Talons up to? 
Until now, the PCs have only heard rumors 
that the Talons are up to something, 
perhaps a big move against the Coalition. 
Those rumors are about to become reality.
About a year ago someone decided that 
the Icarus Hub servicing Proch would be 
a prime target for the struggling remnant 
force. Not only did the hub have an 
increasingly disgruntled working class, but 
its capture would yield both a strategic 
asset and a much needed morale boost.
Even more, the hub is a treasure chest. 
If captured, it would provide the Talons 
with hundreds of ships, thousands of new 
recruits, and enough weapons and supplies 
to last for years.
This victory would also be a major blow to 
Proch. Without the hub, Proch would soon 
be starved of supplies. Redirecting incoming 
shipments would be a logistical nightmare, 
taking months to sort out. House Cipriani 
certainly wouldn’t be pleased.
The victory here proves the might of the 
Talons and that someone can stand up to 
the Coalition.
The Mission
The Talons can’t hope to withstand the 
might of the Coalition—and they know it; 
they aren’t stupid. In the grand scheme, 
this mutiny is a hit-and-run operation. 
With Chimera’s help, the Talons have 
planted agents and weapon caches within 
the hub. In the days before the strike, 
they docked several ships full of additional 
weapons, armor, and explosives. These 
ships are scattered all over the hub, placed 
as distribution centers for the Talons and 
their allies.
The Talon’s first target is one of the 
cube’s corners, chosen because it contains 
the only docking stations that can 
accommodate the Legion’s larger troop 
transports. Destroying these docks would 
force Coalition forces to rely on smaller 
transports, slowing the flow of soldiers to 
the station.
Once the mutiny begins, a Savant working 
for the Talons will gain control of the 
docking stations. This allows the Talons to 
control who can and cannot dock. It also 
allows them to control which ships can 
decouple and depart.
Once the Talons gain control, they pack 
the transport ships with all the supplies 
and new recruits they can get. During this 
time, they dispatch several demolition 
crews to place explosives around the 
structures connecting the station’s cubes.
The Talons then depart, blowing the 
connecting structures, which rips the 
station’s cubes apart. 
Aftermath
It’s exceedingly difficult for the PCs to 
stop the Talons from completing their 
mission, but they may try. 
The PCs are massively out-numbered 
and out-gunned. So when things start to 
go bad, try to steer them back to their 
original objective: getting to Nowak to find 
out why she hired them, why she blacked 
out their Extranet activity, and where the 
outpost is.
The Talons will accomplish their mission 
unless the PCs mess up their plans. 
This means the PCs get to witness, first 
hand, the event that marks the Talons of 
Freedom as a serious threat.
With the ships, supplies, and new recruits 
they gained from the mutiny, the Talons 
will go on to become a real thorn in the 
Coalition’s side. 
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
99
Part 3 – Civil Unrest
Attempts to contact Isabella Nowak through 
the Extranet prove useless. Even if the PCs 
can get a personal message to her, she won’t 
acknowledge them. Their only option is to 
approach her in person, meaning they must 
travel to the Icarus Hub orbiting Proch. In the 
Chickenhawk or another jump-capable ship, 
the trip takes about 20 hours; if they use the 
public jump-ring network, about 30 hours.
The Icarus Hub that services Proch is, like 
most Icarus Hubs, a cluster of large cubical 
structures, each edge about a kilometer long, 
arranged into a larger cube. Each smaller 
cube hooks onto those adjacent with dozens 
of connecting structures, allowing passage of 
both shipping containers and people. 
The cubes are spaced apart enough for 
most mid-sized craft to pass between. Every 
surface of every cube is exposed, and each 
surface features a few dozen docking stations. 
When the crew arrives at the hub, before 
docking they see the corner of a cube explode 
and break away. The mutiny has begun. 
Though the hubs are owned and operated by 
House Cipriani, this hub is staffed mostly by 
House Tsarya. By and large, the dockworkers 
and manual laborers are apostates and 
Tsaryans with very low Rep.
For years the hub-workers have been 
treated unfairly by House Tsarya, and Cipriani 
has largely turned a blind eye to the growing 
problem. Cipriani considered it Tsarya’s 
problem, and Tsarya hasn’t seen it as a 
problem at all. Until today…
Chimera played a large role in instigating the 
Talon’s attack. While it would have happened 
eventually, Chimera saw an opportunity to 
shorten the timeline and, knowing that the 
attack could help cover his tracks, took it. 
Not only does Chimera know everything the 
PCs do, but he has the advantage of being 
better able to collate it all and understand 
how to best take advantage of the PCs’ 
combined skills, contacts, and assets.
Sequence: Reaching Nowak (Assumes 4 PCs)
Success Track: 
 |  | | 
Goal: Reach and capture Nowak so she can 
be interrogated.
Time Between Rounds: 10 min
Difficulty: Hard (4)
Aspects:
 ª Icarus Hub in Orbit Around Proch
 ª “Lighthouse has been called in to 
put down the threat... with extreme 
prejudice.”
 ª “The mesh has been... flaky, ever since 
the explosions started.”
 ª “Chimera helped instigate this—he’s a 
hero to the apostates and Talons.”
 ª “Much of the station is damaged, and 
the environmental systems have been 
compromised.”
 ª “More forces coming from Proch!”
Some Sample Declarations:
Hanger R-17 Is Clear for Docking
Security Logs Show Nowak in Security 
Checkpoint B-46
“Ramsey and his gang are going to watch 
our backs.”
“We’ve got control of the environmental 
systems.”
All Ports on Cube 3 Are Sealed
“Sgt. Toric owes us a favor.”
Hanger Bay B-13 Exposed to Vacuum
Lighthouse Command Vessel Destroyed
Sample Consequences
Mild Mesh Intrusion Detected
Moderate Heavy Assault Squad 
Deployed
Severe “Kestrel has our 
position!”
Extreme Nowak’s Security Team 
Is Dead and She’s on the 
Run
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
100
Chimera and House Kimura used 
the hub’s systems heavily in their 
attempts to aid the Talons, and 
Chimera intentionally left behind 
some digital fingerprints. 
Knowing what he does about 
the PCs, Chimera left evidence 
that implicates the PCs in the 
mutiny, hoping to direct some 
retribution back at them instead 
of just the Talons. This was yet 
another attempt to obstruct their 
investigations. 
Whatever morality the 
Apotheosized PCs’ egos had 
before merging into Chimera, 
it has all been stripped away—
fragmented beyond recognition 
by the merger. Chimera’s primary 
motivation is self-preservation. 
If that means killing the PCs, 
aiding the Talons, and blowing up 
a space station full of innocent 
people… then so be it.
Nowak unleashes Lighthouse on 
the apostates, declares the PCs 
to be enemies of House Tsarya, 
and sends Lighthouse after them 
in the chaos. The docks have 
become a war zone, instigated by 
Chimera to get revenge against 
Nowak. The PCs may hear about 
how Chimera helped arm the 
Talons and apostate workers, but 
the PCs never meet him or anyone 
who has.
The PCs need to get to Nowak so 
they can interrogate her. This is 
handled as a Sequence. The goal 
is to capture Nowak.
Success
If the PCs succeed, they manage 
to get an open route to Nowak. 
They’ll find her in one of the local 
security posts, which has become 
a fallback position since Nowak’s 
offices were taken by apostate 
and Talon forces.
She’s in a back room, with 
only a few tired and wounded 
Lighthouse operatives to protect 
her. 
At first, Nowak claims she doesn’t 
know where the PCs’ cores are. In 
truth, she knows the following: 
 ª Nowak received word that 
the Kimuran outpost orbiting the 
new planet had gone dark for 
over two months. She wanted the 
outpost checked for anything of 
interest on Opportunity Four. She 
didn’t know the outpost was host 
to illegal mnemonics research, 
but being a Purist she ordered it 
destroyed when she found out.
 ª The PCs were killed during 
an attempt to take the outpost 
by force, during which she had 
ordered them to sabotage the 
environmental systems.
 ª She was going to ignore 
the dead PCs. But when one of 
her aides told her that they had 
apparently begun wiping much of 
their own personal data, she feared 
what they were up to. Of course, it 
was Chimera wiping the data, but 
Nowak didn’t know this. So she 
contacted Valare and tasked her to 
scrub the mission to cover the PCs’ 
association with Nowak.
Failure
The PCs find Nowak in the 
security post, but it’s too late. 
She’s been killed already by the 
apostates, Talons, or Kestrel 
(GM’s choice).
Shortly after, the PCs get a 
message over the Extranet. It’s 
from Kestrel, and it just contains 
the coordinates of the outpost.

GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
101
Part 4 – Opportunity Four 
The outpost is in orbit around a planet 
designated Opportunity Four by House 
Kimura. The planet was detected by one of 
their long-range probes, and the outpost 
was deployed to act as a research station in 
hope the planet might provide some useful 
resources.
Opportunity Four eventually proved of 
little interest to Kimura. The planet is about 
twice the size of Earth and has similar 
temperatures, but the atmosphere lacks 
oxygen. Moreover, the planet’s composition 
lacks enough rare materials to make it 
worth the resources expended to collect 
them.
Kimura has since declared the planet 
a loss, but left the outpost in orbit at the 
request of one of its subsidiaries, called 
Mindscapes, who wanted to use it for top-
secret mnemonics research. It was here 
that the crew was captured and their egos 
merged into Chimera.
As soon as the outpost detects the 
crew’s ship, it remotely detonates the star 
system’s only comm-buoy. This cuts off  
everyone in the system from the Extranet 
and intersystem communications. 
Raptors Inbound
The outpost also unleashes two Raptor 
interceptors. The interceptors will fight 
until either they disable the PCs’ ship or are 
disabled or destroyed themselves.
The PCs win the conflict if they can Take 
Out both drone craft. They can then attempt 
to enter the station.
If the PCs’ ship is Taken Out during the 
conflict, the drones will leave it dead in 
the water, floating through space for their 
owners to later salvage. The PCs will need 
to find another way to get to the outpost.
Dead in the Water
If the PCs’ ship is Taken Out, they can get 
to the outpost in a few ways.
They might be able to repair the ship while 
sitting idle and then make a last-minute 
dash to the outpost. They could try to exit 
the ship and cross the distance in open 
space. They might also try to communicate 
with Chimera and Dr. Nakamura. 
Dealing with Chimera, Nakamura, or both 
could be tricky. The PCs will have to offer 
something that they want.
Chimera wants to be free, and sees the 
death of the PCs as an integral part of 
that. When he learns that the PCs are alive 
and onboard the station, his immediate 
response is to order the Raptors to finish 
them off. Thankfully, Dr. Nakamura 
overrides that order; he’d rather see what 
the PCs have to offer.
Chimera will entertain any offer that puts 
the PCs in a disadvantageous position, so 
that killing them will be easier.
Dr. Nakamura just wants more time 
to finish his research. But he’d also like 
another set of egos to work with, and 
blowing up the ship could make them 
unrecoverable.
Chimera and Dr. Nakamura have another 
problem, though. When the comm-buoy 
was destroyed, all compilers in the star 
system stopped working. They won’t 
work without an Extranet connection 
to authorize users. Without a functional 
compiler, the outpost will soon lack the 
resources it needs.
Dr. Nakamura would much prefer to get his 
hands on the PCs’ gear, and the contents of 
the ship, than blow it all up. 
Chimera and Nakamura will accept pretty 
much any reasonable deal the PCs offer. Of 
course, they plan to kill the crew as soon as 
possible, harvest their cores, and take their 
ship.
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
102

GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
103
Detailed Maps
For more extensive detail of the Chickenhawk 
(Exeter), Research Outpost (Vanguard) and more, 
we highly recommend you check out the Future 
Armada line by Ryan Wolfe from 0 hr: Art and 
Technology at http://0-hr.com/Future_Armada/
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
104
Top Deck
1. Barracks
 ª All the Comforts of Home
2. Restroom
 ª The Only Private Room on 
the Station
3. Armory
 ª Locked and Off-Limits
 ª Meager Assortment of 
Weapons and Armor
4. Reception/Processing
 ª Neglected Holographic 
Workstation
5. Office
 ª Comfy Suspension Chair
 ª VR Interface Ready
6. Command Center Balcony
 ª Tasteful Japanese Adornment
 ª Reserved for Personal Work and Meetings
7. Atrium Catwalk
 ª Three Meters Above the Atrium Floor
 ª Wire-Grated Floor
 ª Weak Gravity Field
8. Lounge Balcony
 ª Great View of the Lounge and the Stars 
Above
9. Detention Center
 ª Just a Couch and a Chair
 ª Office Supply Storage
 ª Security Doors are Reinforced Steel, and 
Locked
Inaccessible Areas
 ª Life Support, Communications, and 
Sensors
 ª No Easy Access
Main Deck
10. Cargo Bay
 ª Freight in Passkey-Secured, Pressurized 
Crates
 ª Most of the Freight is Raw Materials for 
Compilers
 ª Ammo for the Station’s Onboard Weapons
11. Hangar Bay
 ª Equipped to Service and Refuel
 ª The Bay Can Cycle Atmosphere as Needed
12. Gantry/Umbilical
 ª Extendable Arms Used by Docking Craft
 ª Controls in Command Center and Hangar 
Bay
 ª Weak Gravity Field
13. General Supplies
 ª Flight Suits and Vacuum Suits
 ª Assorted Sundries
14. Kitchen
 ª Walk-In Freezer
 ª Mostly Dehydrated Rations
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
105
15. Isolation
 ª Prisoner Storage and Interrogation
 ª Former Storage Room
 ª Cast-Off Cybersleeves
 ª Handcuffs Attached to Bracket on Wall
 ª Bloodstained Floor
16. Surgery
 ª Medical and First Aid Gear
 ª Array Dedicated to Mnemonics Research 
and Editing
 ª Chimera’s Birthplace
17. Machine Shop
 ª Large Compiler
 ª Tools and Raw Materials Needed for 
Repairs
18. Zero-Grav Shaft
 ª Zero-G Shaft for Moving Between Sections
 ª Handholds and a Ladder
 ª Emergency Bulkheads at Each End
19. Command Center
 ª Nerve Center of the Station
 ª Great View
20. Atrium
 ª Removable Floor Panels to Access 
Maintenance Shafts
 ª Sparse and Open
21. Lounge
 ª Music and Video
 ª Imitation Wood Tables
Spine
22. Quarters (Alpha)
 ª Private Suites Used by Chimera and 
Nakamura
 ª Chimera’s Room Is a Mess
 ª Chimera’s Walls Are Adorned with 
Pictures of Loved Ones
 ª “Nakamura’s room is, like all other 
aspects of his life, neat and orderly.”
 ª Escape Pods
22. Quarters (Beta)
 ª Living Quarters for Technicians and 
Assistants
22. Quarters (Delta)
 ª Living Quarters for Engineers and Security 
Staff
 ª Filled with Bodies Sprayed with Anti-
Decomposition Preservatives
 ª “And yet… it still smells.”
23. Escape Pod
 ª Only Room for Three
24 Station Systems
 ª External Tank Linkage and Monitoring
 ª Tanks Contain Air and Water
25. Lab
 ª Resurrection Chamber
 ª Mnemonic Research
 ª Core Storage
 ª General Storage for Bedding and Cleaning 
Supplies
Engineering Level
26. Gym
 ª “Weights, a treadmill, punching bag…”
27. Main Engineering
 ª Monitors and Controls the APEX Reactor
 ª Redundant Controls for Life Support and 
Communications
 ª Maintenance and Usage of Rail-Cannons
 ª Access to Repair Drones
28. Conference Room
 ª Expensive Real-Wood Table
Docking Hatch and Power Core
 ª Docking Shaft Runs Through Center of 
APEX Drive
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
106
Gaining Entry
If the PCs are in the Chickenhawk and they 
haven’t repaired it, they won’t be able to 
make a sealed connection.
In any case, the outer hatch is locked and 
will only recognize Dr. Haruto Nakamura’s 
CID. The PCs can either hack it with Eminent 
Domain (Diff: 4) or blow it with explosives. 
To blow the hatch, the PCs can to rig a few 
grenades or a satchel charge, requiring a 
successful Demolitions test. 
Adjust the test’s difficulty depending on how 
much explosive force the PCs can produce. 
For example, a satchel charge would set the 
difficulty at 1, while a few rigged grenades 
might set it at 3.
The PCs can also gain access through a side 
venting ducts of one of the Epsilon-level 
habitat modules. The access point is just 
beside the escape pod ejection port. It’s 
large enough for a person to crawl through 
and contains an air lock filled with waste 
gases. A Savant can hack the access point 
with Eminent Domain (Diff: 2), or it can be 
bypassed with Hardware Engineering (Diff: 
3).
This gas vent leads to an access panel above 
a shower in the habitat module.
Opposition
The outpost has a fair amount of defense. 
Dr. Nakamura doesn’t trust many people 
and wants to keep his team very small. 
At Chimera’s urging, though, he has 
requisitioned a rather large number of 
security drones. 
Chimera will fight, but won’t fight to the 
death. If it looks like he will be defeated, he’ll 
try to get to an escape pod. If he can get to 
the pod, he will pilot it down to the planet’s 
surface, where he has some gear and the 
PCs’ ship from their first mission. 
If he can’t get to the pods, he will surrender. 
He will then beg forgiveness and try to 
convince the PCs to let him live.
Remember that Chimera’s mind is heavily 
fragmented. He has very little empathy or 
compassion, and will betray the PCs in an 
instant if it means he can escape. He also has 
all their memories, which he will try to use to 
his advantage.
Nakamura and the other four scientists will 
not fight. They have no combat training, and 
they know it. If fighting breaks out, they will 
take cover or flee.  
The drones have orders to shoot trespassers 
on site. They are driven by Beta-level AIs, 
and can be controlled directly from the 
command center.  
Trouble Incoming
Once the PCs deal with Chimera— whether 
by killing him, making a deal with him, or by 
letting him escape—the outpost’s proximity 
alert sounds.
Another ship has entered the system, en 
route to the outpost. The ship is a small 
transport craft, itself not much of a threat. 
But it’s registered to Crimson and Sons, the 
public face of the Crimson Suns.
Kestrel has been ordered to clean up House 
Kimura’s mess. His orders are to enter the 
outpost, kill everyone onboard, destroy their 
cores, wipe all data on the facility, and send 
it into the system’s sun.
Kestrel’s ship will attempt to dock with the 
outpost, after which his team will blow the 
doors. Their reaper drone will enter first, 
clearing the way for the rest of the hit squad.
The PCs can try to bargain with Kestrel and 
his team, but it will be very difficult. These 
people are very loyal to their House, and 
understand the necessity of eliminating its 
indiscretions.
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
107
Epilogue
Once the PCs defeat Kestrel, they’re left to 
put their lives back in order.
Exiled
If they didn’t strike a deal with Nowak, the 
PCs are probably still branded as traitors. 
They’re effectively apostates and wanted 
dead or alive.
Until they can clear themselves of the 
charges, they’ll have to avoid Coalition space 
or get around by using false CIDs. 
Their Rep scores will remain frozen until 
they can stand trial for their crimes. This 
means they can’t use their Rep to acquire 
goods and cannot use compilers.
The best way they can clear their names 
is by turning over the research data from 
the outpost. Of course, this will make them 
enemies of certain factions within House 
Kimura, and possibly also House Tsarya if 
they reveal Isabella Nowak’s involvement.
Chimera
Chimera can be a very interesting recurring 
villain for the PCs to deal with. If he escaped, 
he will continue seeking avenues that better 
secure his freedom.
And killing the PCs is still a good way to help 
ensure this. He knows what and who they 
know, and he knows how best to strike at 
them. However, he’ll likely choose to lie low 
for a little while. 
After landing on Opportunity Four, he waits 
for the PCs to leave the system, after which 
he makes a run for the edge of the planet’s 
gravity well and jumps away.
Chimera’s Stats
Most characters that the PCs will likely 
encounter in this scenario are given stats. 
Chimera doesn’t have stats because he is 
a combination of the PCs.
Physically, Chimera inhabits a top-of-
the-line, custom Paragon sleeve. House 
Kimura spared little expense in creating 
and sleeving Chimera.
Chimera’s Skills, Stunts, and Savant 
Programs are derived from those of the 
Apotheosized PCs he was made from. 
Each of his skill ratings equals the highest 
of those from all the contributing PCs. The 
sole exception is Cohesion, which has a 
rating of 1.
Chimera also has all of the Stunts that 
they have, or at least all the Stunts that 
would make sense for him to inherit. If any 
PCs from which Chimera was derived are 
Savants, Chimera knows all of their Savant 
Programs.  
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
108
Harvester
These harvester drones were designed for a 
singular gruesome task, to seek out enemies 
on the battlefield, sever their heads, and 
collect their mnemonic cores.
Less than half a meter long, harvesters look 
much like large flying beetles. They are held 
aloft with three small gravitic flight pods, and 
their “faces” are equipped with two scythe-like 
mandibles. 
It is also capable of projecting a line of plasti-
rope tipped with a serrated barb. The purpose 
of the tether is to capture its prey, keeping it 
from escaping before its head can be severed.
Delta Drone [Restricted]  Cos t: 9
Aspects:  Size: -1
 ª Synthetic Biology(P)
 ª Inhuman Appearance
 ª Flying Head Hunter
 ª Quick and Agile
 ª Gravitic Flight Pods
 ª Sonar Reception Array
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 3, Endurance 3, 
Perception 2
Notable Skills: Melee 5, Resolve 2, Strategy 2
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Head Hunter – Any character Taken Out by 
an attack from the Harvester’s mandibles is 
decapitated. Characters may not spend FPs to 
avoid this fate.
 ª Fully Synthetic
 ª Optimized Power Systems
 ª Armed – Mandibles and Tether Spear
 ª Alternative Mobility System – Grants the 
Gravitic Flight Pods Aspect
 ª Sonar Reception Array – Grants the Sonar 
Reception Array Aspect
Physical Defense:  AR: 4
Physical Attacks:  
Mono-Edge Mandibles WR: 5
  Armor Penetrating
Tether Spear  WR: 3
If hit, the target suffers the Tethered Aspect. 
A Tethered character can untether himself by 
spending an action and succeeding on an Athletics 
test (Diff: 3). 
ANTAGONISTS
Apostate Worker
State: Pure 
Aspects:  Size: 0
 ª “I just want to be treated fairly.”
 ª “Enough is enough!”
 ª “Maybe the Talons offer a better way.”
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 2, Endurance 2, 
Perception 1
Notable Skills: Firearms 1, Intimidation 2, 
Melee 2, Resolve 3
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Non-Citizen
Physical Defense:  AR: 1
Reinforced Clothing
Physical Attacks:  
Light Rail Pistol  WR: 3
  Armor Penetrating, Small, Reduce WR by -2 for Silent
Dagger, Mono-Edged WR: 2
 Small
Motivation: The typical apostate worker is 
not prone to violence. But if pushed too far, 
and given a sufficiently charismatic leader to 
guide him or her, the apostate may be willing 
to hurt others to gain a their freedom or take 
a chance on a better life.
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
109
Kestrel
Ringleader of Struggling Apostate Com-
munity on Asola
State: Sleeved (Custom Biosleeve) 
Aspects:  Size: 0
 ª “I want what is best for my people.”
 ª “The Coalition is rotting from within; I’m 
just lending a hand.”
 ª Unofficial Leader of Asola Apostates
 ª “They know me, so it’s hard to move in 
secret.”
 ª You Can’t Con and Con-Man
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 3, Endurance 3, 
Perception 4
Notable Skills: Assets 4, Cohesion 2, 
Diplomacy 3, Education 2, Firearms 2, 
Guile 4, Insight 3, Intimidation 2, Melee 
3, Networking (Apostate) 5, Networking 
(House) 2, Resolve 3, Strategy 3 
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Agenda Celebrity (Apostates)
 ª Constant Vigilance
 ª Dodge
 ª Apotheosis (Remote Backup)
 ª Striking Looks
 ª Cosmetic Customization (Glowing/Glossy 
Skin)
 ª Pheromone Control and Sensitivity
Physical Defense:  AR: 1
Reinforced Clothing
Physical Attacks:  
Heavy Coil PDW WR: 4
  Full Auto, Reduce WR by -2 for Silent
Frag Grenade x2 Exr: 6, A: 1
ME Longsword  WR: 4
Motivation: Kestrel’s primary concern is 
for himself, though he truly cares for the 
apostates he represents. He works with 
them in an effort to afford them better lives. 
But if  he is forced to, Kestrel will choose 
loyalty to his House over the apostates, or 
any other allies.
Kraken
The Kraken was developed by the Federation, 
before the Exodus. It was deployed to clear 
buildings and bunkers, designed to hunt and 
kill in confined quarters.
Epsilon Drone [Restricted] Cos t: 12
Aspects:  Size: 1
 ª Synthetic Biology(P)
 ª Inhuman Appearance
 ª Horrid Mass of Tentacles and Death
 ª Dedicated Murder Drone
 ª Massive
 ª Eight Deadly Tentacles
 ª Beholder Sensory Suite(P)
 ª Purpose-Built Killing Machine
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 4, Endurance 4, 
Perception 3
Notable Skills: Firearms 3, Melee 3, Resolve 
2, Strategy 1
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Multi-Attacker – Gain one additional free 
action each turn, which can be used to attack.
 ª Fully Synthetic
 ª Optimized Power Systems ×2
 ª Armed – ME Talons and PAc Tentacles
 ª Alternative Mobility System – Grants the 
Mass of Tentacles Aspect
 ª Extra Limb – Grants the Eight Deadly Tentacles 
Aspect.
 ª Beholder Sensory Suite – Grants the Beholder 
Sensory Suite(P) Aspect
 ª Custom Built – Grants the Purpose-Built 
Killing Machine Aspect
Physical Defense:  AR: 4
Physical Attacks:  
  Mono-Edge Talons ×3 WR: 5
  Armor Penetrating
  PAc Tentacles ×3 WR: 5
  Beam Weapon, Particle Accelerator
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
110
Lighthouse Heavy
State: Pure 
Aspects:  Size: 0
 ª Professional Soldier
 ª “I’m just in it for the Rep.”
 ª “Nothing personal, okay?”
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 6**, Endurance 5, 
Perception 2
Notable Skills: Firearms 5*, Intimidation 4, 
Melee 3*, Resolve 2, Strategy 2, 
* Adjusted for Combat Training
** Adjusted for Reinforced Cyber-Musculature
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Combat Training
 ª Slayer
Physical Defense:  AR: 4
Heavy Powered Assault Armor 
(Reinforced Cyber-Musculature), 
High-Density Plating, Mag-Traction, 
Zero-G Assist Jets
Physical Attacks:  
Portable Rail-Minigun WR: 7
  Full Auto, Armor Penetrating, High Capacity, Huge (P)
Light Rail-Array  WR: 5
  Armor Penetrating, Large, Shotgun (P), Reduce WR by 
-2 for Silent
Gooper Grenade ExR: N, A: 1
  Ignores armor. Sets a Block with a Potency equal to the 
attack Effort.
Frag Grenade x2 Exr: 6, A: 1
Motivation: The Lighthouse Heavy has been 
outfitted with the best gear because, frankly, 
she’s the best killer. She enjoys fighting and 
revels in the sense of invincibility her armor 
gives her.
Notes: The Combat Training Stunt grants 
a +2 bonus on all attack tests. It has been 
factored into the Heavy’s stats.
The Slayer Stunt allows the Heavy to spend 
a FP to add +3 stress inflicted to an attack 
that doesn’t cause a Consequence. To use 
this Stunt, she must be using a weapon with 
the Huge(P) Aspect.

GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
111
Lighthouse Security Operative
State: Pure 
Aspects:  Size: 0
 ª Professional Soldier
 ª “I’m just in it for the Rep.”
 ª “Nothing personal, okay?”
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 3, Endurance 3, 
Perception 3
Notable Skills: Firearms 5*, Intimidation 3, 
Melee 4*, Resolve 2, Strategy 2, 
* Adjusted for Combat Training
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Combat Training
 ª Marksman
Physical Defense:  AR: 4
Heavy Battle Armor (Vacuum Sealed and 
Shielded)
Physical Attacks:  
Rail Carbine  WR: 5
  Armor Penetrating, Large, Reduce WR by -2 for Silent
Stun Grenade x2 ExR: N, A: 1
  Targets that suffer stress are Stunned until the end of 
the scene.
Gooper Grenade ExR: N, A: 1
  Ignores armor. Sets a Block with a Potency equal to the 
attack Effort.
Gravitic Baton  WR: 3
Motivation: Lighthouse Security Operatives 
have a job to do, so they do it. They are 
professionals, and don’t make it personal.
Notes: The Combat Training Stunt grants a 
+2 bonus on all attack tests. This is already 
factored into the Operative’s stats.
The Marksman Stunt grants a +2 bonus on 
tests to Take Aim, and once per scene, allows 
the attacker to reduce the target’s Armor 
Rating by 3 for a single attack.
Lighthouse Officer
State: Pure 
Aspects:  Size: 0
 ª Professional Soldier
 ª “I’m just in it for the Rep.”
 ª “People like us are what keeps the 
galaxy in order; we represent safety and 
stability.”
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 3, Endurance 3, 
Perception 3
Notable Skills: Firearms 3, Intimidation 4, 
Melee 3, Resolve 3, Strategy 3, 
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Strategist
 ª Inspire Greatness
 ª Refreshed
Physical Defense:  AR: 4
Heavy Battle Armor (Vacuum Sealed and 
Shielded)
Physical Attacks:  
Heavy Coil PDW WR: 4
  Full Auto, Reduce WR by -2 for Silent
Frag Grenade x2 Exr: 6, A: 1
ME Longsword  WR: 4
 Large
Motivation: The Lighthouse officer does 
what he does for the Rep and benefits, and 
justifies his actions to himself and others are 
doing what it takes to maintain order.
Notes: The Strategist Stunt allows the 
Officer to spend a FP to gain a +2 bonus on 
all attack tests against a selected opponent 
until the end of the scene.
The Inspire Greatness Stunt allows the 
Officer to, once per scene, grant his ally a +3 
bonus.
The Refreshed Stunt grants the Officer one 
additional FP per scene.
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
112
Red Sun Enforcer
State: Sleeved (Jinsoku Cybersleeve) 
Aspects:  Size: 0
 ª Loyal to the Sun
 ª Views Pure Humans as a Lesser Species
 ª Sneaky and Cunning
 ª Synthetic Biology(P)
 ª Inhuman Appearance
 ª Auditory Amp and Filtering Module(P)
 ª Beholder Sensory Suite(P)
 ª Retinal Implant
 ª Stealth Mods
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 3, Endurance 2, 
Perception 4
Notable Skills: Guile 2, Firearms 4*, 
Intimidation 2, Melee 5*, Resolve 3, 
Strategy 2, 
* Adjusted for Combat Training
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Combat Training
 ª Concentrated Fire
 ª Apotheosis
 ª Bio-Skin Sheath
 ª Fully Synthetic
 ª Auditory Amp and Filtering Module
 ª Beholder Sensory Suite
 ª Custom Built (Stealth Mods)
 ª Retinal Implant
Physical Defense:  AR: 5
Light Battle Armor, Cybersleeve Grants +2
Physical Attacks:  
Heavy Coil PDW WR: 4
  Full Auto, Reduce WR by -2 for Silent
ME Longsword (Katana) WR: 4
Notes: The Combat Training Stunt grants a 
+2 bonus on all attack tests. This is already 
factored into Enforcer’s stats.
The Concentrated Fire Stunt allows the 
soldier to, once per scene, attack a foe and 
direct an ally to attack that same foe at the 
same time. 
The ally attacks as an Instant Action.
Raptor Interceptor
Size: 2      Refresh: 2
Cost: 13 Structural Stress: 3
Aspects: System Stress: 3
 ª Short-Range Fighter
 ª Built by Dalianis to Protect Otherwise 
Defenseless Ships
 ª Heavy Offense, Light on Defense
Specialty Aspects:
 ª Hard-Hitting Forward Auto-Cannons 
(Weapons)
 ª Three Days Rations for a Stranded Pilot 
(Systems) 
 ª Long-Range Sensors Leave Much to be 
Desired  (Sensors) 
Capabilities:  Crew 1, Maneuverability 2, 
Structure 1,  Sensors 1, Speed 1, Systems 1,  
Weapons 2
Features: Space Flight, VTOL, Auto Cannon, 
Drone Pilot*, Mesh System and Extranet 
Connectivity Suite 
Physical Defense: AR: 2
Physical Attacks:  
   Auto-Cannon  WR: 4
* Drone Pilot (New Feature) – The craft has 
an AI capable of piloting and using weapons 
without the assistance of a human pilot. The 
AI has a rating of 2 in the Pilot and Firearms 
Skills.
GHOSTS 
IN DARKNESS
113
Talon of Freedom Soldier Officer
State: Pure 
Aspects:  Size: 0
 ª Soldier Born of Desperation
 ª Symbol of Order and Hope for the Men
What we do today is not for us, but our 
children, and our children’s children.
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 3, Endurance 3, 
Perception 3
Notable Skills: Firearms 2, Intimidation 3, 
Melee 3, Strategy 3, Resolve 4
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Banner of Hope
 ª Inspire Greatness
Physical Defense:  AR: 3
  Light Battle Armor
Physical Attacks:  
Heavy Coil PDW WR: 4
  Full Auto, Reduce WR by -2 for Silent
Frag Grenade x2 Exr: 6, A: 1
ME Calvary Saber WR: 4
 Large
Motivation: The Talon Officer 
accepts that he likely won’t see 
the fruits of his labor, and may 
die fighting to make a better 
tomorrow.
Notes: The Banner of Hope 
Stunt allows the Officer to, 
once per scene, clear all 
stress from one of his allies.
The Inspire Greatness Stunt 
allows the Officer to, once 
per scene, grant an ally a +3 
bonus.
Talon of Freedom Soldier
State: Pure 
Aspects:  Size: 0
 ª Soldier Born of Desperation
 ª Relatively Undisciplined
 ª Fights Hardest with Back to the Wall
Sleeve Skills: Athletics 3, Endurance 3, 
Perception 2
Notable Skills: Firearms 2, Intimidation 2, 
Melee 2, Strategy 1, Resolve 3
Relevant Stunts/Augmentations:
 ª Concentrated Fire
Physical Defense:  AR: 3
  Light Battle Armor
Physical Attacks:  
Heavy Coil PDW WR: 4
  Full Auto, Reduce WR by -2 for Silent
ME Shortsword  WR: 3
Motivation: The Talons see 
this as an opportunity to both 
bring down an Icarus Hub and 
to recruit new Talons.
Notes: The Concentrated Fire 
Stunt allows the soldier to, 
once per scene, attack a foe and 
direct an ally to attack the same 
foe at the same time. 
The ally attacks as an Instant 
Action.

INDEX
114
INDEX
Aaron Blackburn  56
Abbasi Textiles  20
Adani Motors  40
Alliance  55
Ansari Station  27
Apostate  6, 16
Arbiters  35
Archive  55, 57
Archives  6
Aria Softworks  32
Asola  35
Astralist  35
Auxiliaries  9
Barony of Habarcq  26
Barony of Keppler  26
Barony of Macrotech  26
Bilderberg Group  55
Biogenics United  36
Black Czars  42
Board of Governance  34
Board of Relations  34
Bremen  80
Camber Roche  68
Carthage  75
Castor  79
Catalyst  66
Cent-Comm  14
Centurion  13
Ceres  43
Chamberlain  22
Chengdan  32
Chicago  35
Children of Dionysus  44
Ciphire  23
CIST  20
Coalition  12, 15
Coalition Marine Corps  14
Compiler  15
Concetta Allegro  81
Consolidation Concord  12
Consolidation Wars  53
Crimson & Sons  34
cybersleeve  32
Cygnus Alpha  20, 25
Czars  42
Daedalus  48
Daimyo  34
Dalianis Interplanetary  24
DCE  48
Default  15
Dimitri Korolev  43
Directorate Committee  30
Discipline Committee  30
Drivas  75
Earth  6
Elysium  54
Enceladus  69, 72
Fallen, The  44
false CID  18
Federation  55
Fragmentation  8
Freemasons  
55
Gatekeeper  17
Geist  78
Giordino Automotive  20
Gondolin  68
Guardian’s Shield  30
Guardian’s Spear  31
Gulo  69
Hiske Electronics  32
House  12
House Cipriani  20
House Dalianis  24
House Jinzhan  28
House Kimura  32
House Silva  36
House Tsarya  40
House Turin  46
Humanity Preservation Act 
(HPA)  8, 53

INDEX
115
ICON  15
Illuminati  55
Inago  39
Infinite Horizon  39
IT Alpha  21
Javier Schulz  48
Jennifer Hobson  39
Jinzhan Developments  28
Katsumi Yoshida (Obsidian)  35
Keppler Shipyards  21, 24
Kimura Ascendant  32
Knights Dalianis  27
Kuiper Belt  27, 53
Legionnaires  14
Legions, The  14
Lighthouse  27
Lions of Sarnath  43
Lucas Rodriguez  39
Luminance Inc.  23
Luna  6, 21, 23, 24, 36, 40, 78
Macrotech Robotics  24
Malachite  75
Mars  6, 50
Matteo Morreti  35
Mercury  20, 77
Mesh  8
Mimir  6, 48
Ministers  13
Ministries  13
Mogi  80
Monitor  16
Naesock  69
New Montreal  17
New Turin  21, 51, 72
New World Order  55
Nikos Varga  27
Odysseus Station  39
Olympus  12, 24, 32
Oort Cloud  73
Oversight  48
People’s Guardian  30
Phalanx Formation  15, 47, 
72
Phobos  36
Polygon Studios  39
Praetorian  27
Praetorians  15
Proch  40
Progenesis Afflicted  48
Project Wendigo  39
Promethic Collective, The  
26
Promethic Technologies  24
Protectorate  8, 13
Purgatory  53
Purist  21, 24, 28, 40
Quarantine  28
Quester  22
Reaper Teams  39
Red Sun  34
Remnants  9, 18
Rep-Rating  12, 16
Rho  21
Rings of Olympus  50
Rin Sakamoto  69
Risel Armory  40
Rosicrucians  55
Rusila Alvid  73
SACom  14
Samurai  34
Sanctuary  17, 77
Santa Maria  17
Saturn  69
Savant  8
Scholae Palatinae  15, 51, 75
Second Chances  39, 53
Secretariat Committee  30
Senate  12
Seraphim  48, 53, 78
Shadow War  9, 33, 57
Shogun  34
Shouye  28
SIM  8, 32
Sitter  22
Sol  6
Spyder  17
Stanislaw Markov  74
Starlight  53
Stygia  80
Tahan Power  20
Talons of Freedom  27, 56
Tejun  75
Tellerus Fields  18, 23
Terra 17  39
Tetragon  14, 75, 77
Titan  71
Traeger  79
Transhuman  7, 32, 36
Unseen Court, The  57
Valkyrie Industrial  36
Vantage  71
Viking  79
VirtuVac  21, 33
Vulcan Swarm  43
Way-point S-9  67
Wendigo  39
Yakuza  34
Zheng Xiaodan  31
