Mercury
Gravity: .37G
Length of Day: 58.65 Earth Days
Estimated Population: 260k
Notable Settlements/Locations:
• Specular Spread: Solar panel field and production facilities
(House Cipriani)
• Base 10: Antimatter production facilities (House Cipriani)
• Tellerus Fields: Site of the worst battle between the
remnant forces of Earth’s governments and the Coalition
• Mercurial Gateway: One of two jump rings in the Sol
system.
• Mercurian Tunnel System: A series of tunnels that connect
the most of the habitats and facilities on Mercury.
• Balor: A large habitat on the surface of the planet, used as
a vacation spot and getaway for workers at the various
Mercurian facilities.
The Coalition was not founded overnight, and wasn’t (and
still isn’t) popular with everyone. Remnants of Earth’s
governments put up a fight; broken and scattered as they were,
they never really had a chance.
The last major battle, which most feel solidified the
Coalition’s position, was the battle of Tellerus Fields. At the
time, as it remains today, Mercury was home to nearly all of
the antimatter production in the galaxy.
The remnant forces took a number of the antimatter
production facilities and attempted to hold them against the
newly founded Coalition forces. The resulting battle remains
the largest organized engagement the Coalition has ever taken
part in.
In the end, the remnant forces were broken and scattered,
though a number of survivors escaped into the tunnels that
connect many of the Mercurian habitats and facilities.
It is believed that large numbers of remnant supporters still
hide out in the vast tunnel network; if this is true, they haven’t
made any attempts to harm anyone.
House Cipriani now operates the majority of the antimatter
production facilities on Mercury, solidifying its position as the
primary provider of power in Coalition space.
Massive fields of solar panels cover much of Mercury. These
panel fields were built and placed by a subsidiary of House
Cipriani called Specular Spread. With these, the blinding light of
the sun is converted into the power needed to operate
hundreds of antimatter processing plants owned and operated
by Base 10, another subsidiary of House Cipriani.
The antimatter produced is then shipped off-world to one of
three Icarus Hubs in orbit, and then taken to a nearby jump
ring. This ring, called the Mercurial Gateway, is one of two jump
rings in the Sol system. It is primarily used to ship the processed
antimatter to other systems, and acts as a route to the Eye of
Sol located near Earth.
Piracy has always been a concern here, and has grown worse
of late. Remnant military forces in need of antimatter often
stage hit-and-run strikes in hopes of crippling a shipping vessel,
capturing its cargo, and disappearing before the Protectorate
can respond.
Some have begun to wonder if these strikes are being
organized in the tunnels that connect the habitats and
productions facilities. If so, could it be the work of remnant
forces still hiding there after all this time?29
Venus
Gravity: .91G
Length of Day: 243 Earth Days
Estimated Population: 435k in Gondolin, around 25k on The
Maiden
Notable Settlements/Locations:
• Gondolin: Hidden apostate enclave, largest in the solar
system.
• The Venusian Maiden (The Maiden): Research station set
up to study Venus in an effort to learn more about how
Earth was formed.
Venus has never been especially interesting to the Coalition.
It’s a hellish world of volcanic mountains and rivers of lava. Its
blazing-hot atmosphere is composed of carbon dioxide and
sulfuric acid, with pressures that would crush a man.
Although the Coalition has little use for such an inhospitable
location, it is perfect for apostates willing to live a tough life in
exchange for freedom.
Gondolin
The apostate enclave of Gondolin sports a population of
around 435 thousand. It consists of hundreds of connected
clusters of buildings, all assembled at the molecular level by a
variant of the technophage design known as a Vulcan swarm: a
type of esper swarm that cannot replicate. These types of
swarms eventually deplete, however, and the swarms that
made Gondolin are long gone.
Now the city struggles with an overpopulation problem. Since
no more habitable areas can be built, the local government has
passed laws stating that no couple may have more than one
child. Additional children lead to hefty fines.
An elected mayor leads the local apostate government, with
paid constables serving as law enforcement. The current mayor
is Camber Roche, a Frenchman and survivor of the technophage
who currently exists as a SIM. Roche won his most recent
election on a platform of transhumanist ideals. He is trying to
convince more people to undergo Apotheosis and become SIMs
in an effort to deal with the population problem.
The population mostly consists of former Americans, Italians,
Greeks, and Africans. Although they voted a transhumanist for
mayor, the majority are still Purists who fear Apotheosis.
In addition to a few resurrection chambers and the gear
required to perform the Apotheosis procedure, Gondolin also
has a single working compiler. It is operated by a talented
Savant named Gulo, who is responsible for cracking the
compiler’s security each time it needs to be used.
The existence of this compiler is a well-kept secret. Most of
Gondolin’s goods actually come from black market trading,
which is preferred by the mayor. After all, if word got out that
they have a working compiler, both the Coalition and other
apostate factions would come for it.
Of late, some have begun to fear that they haven’t done
enough to stay hidden. But if the Coalition knows Gondolin
exists, why do they not act?
The Maiden
The only other place people might be found around Venus is
in the Venusian Maiden, an orbiting research space station. The
Maiden studies the Venusian surface and atmosphere in an
attempt to learn more about how planets are formed. It is also
a site the Houses use to perform various experiments.
Of note, one of House Dalianis’ ship-based weapons labs is
located here. When the opportunity arises, they also use this
location to cut deals with secret contacts on Gondolin.30
Earth
Gravity: 1G
Length of Day: 24 hr
Estimated Population: Presumed 0, Officially, no human
remain alive on Earth.
Notable Settlements/Locations:
• Brasilia: Ground zero of the technophage deployment. The
entire region, covering over 300 square kilometers, has
been entirely consumed by machines.
• Marianas Trench: Believed to contain a heavy
concentration of technophage drone nanofactories.
• Denver Interplanetary Spaceport: The focal point for the
weapons and defensive measures the technophage has
developed. An umbrella-like shield has been built to shield
the area from orbital strikes.
• Vantage: A space station located at E-M Lagrange Point 1,
between Earth and Luna. It is both a museum dedicated
to Earth’s history and a base of operations for the
Coalition forces maintaining the quarantine.
• Eye of Sol: Located at E-M Lagrange Point 2, the Eye of Sol
is the rebuilt jump gate originally destroyed during the
Consolidation Wars.
• Ansari Station: House Dalianis’ largest shipyard, located at
E-M Lagrange Point 3.
• Primatech Labs: A House Jinzhan weapons manufacturing
facility primarily dedicated to producing drones and
ordinance for the ships and kill-sats maintaining the
quarantine. It’s located at E-M Lagrange Point 4.
• Sentinel Station: Located at E-M Lagrange Point 5, Sentinel
Station is the largest Coalition military installation in the
galaxy.
The Federation believed that by unleashing the technophage
on the Alliance capital city of Brasilia, the resulting destruction
would be so terrible that the Alliance would be forced to
surrender. It was meant to end the Consolidation Wars in one
horrible act of terrible destruction.
It worked.
The technophage ended the war, but not as intended. The
exact reason is still unknown, but the Federation claimed that
the technophage did not respond to shutdown commands after
its work was done in Brasilia. The Gray Plague spread across the
Earth like a technological infection, a global cancer. In its wake,
autonomous war machines were left to roam the land. These
drones hunted and killed anything living, Alliance and
Federation alike.
The governments of Earth were forced to agree to a
temporary cease-fire in order to deal with this new threat.
Despite some initial success, it soon became clear that the
technophage was capable of quickly adapting its defenses to
new threats. This was not how the technophage was designed
to behave, and it is unknown how it came to be able to adapt.
Today, it is believed that no human remains alive on Earth.
Mankind’s cities are dens of technological terror, shattered
wastelands haunted by murderous machines. Even rural areas
are patrolled by aerial recon drones that are programmed to kill
anything larger than a house cat.
After the Exodus, the majority of the swarm poured into the
ocean and disappeared. Some scattered remnants of the gray
fog remain, but these days the drones are more often seen
than the swarms that birthed them.
The technophage, in its swarm form, can construct drones by
dissolving material and reconfiguring it. However, this process
is slow compared to the building of nanofactories, an ability it31
developed early in the war. These dedicated factories have a
higher output than the swarms alone can produce, and are well
defended. Many of these factories looked like heavily armored
fortresses before the quarantine, but years of heavy orbital
bombardment have eradicated all but the smallest ones.
Since the Exodus, mankind’s cities have been reduced to
either blighted wastelands or festering machine tumors.
However, there are a few locations on the planet of particular
note:
Brasilia
Brasilia has been devoured; little remains but gray powder.
Every few days the nanomachines rise to construct a new
nanofactory, only to be quickly destroyed by orbiting kill-sats or
battleships.
The Marianas Trench
The majority of the technophage swarm is believed to be
concentrated in the deepest part of the world’s oceans, the
Marianas Trench. This area is difficult to analyze or attack from
orbit, so the quarantine enforcement ships and kill-sats have
settled for attacking the drones that emerge from the water.
Recently, increasing numbers of drones have been surfacing
in a larger variety of locations. This increase in activity caused
much concern within the Senate. After much debate, House
Jinzhan was authorized to deploy drones for exploratory
missions. Only one returned.
On its return trip, the drone veered off course and headed
toward Vantage. It refused to obey any commands, and had to
be destroyed by a ship called the Kamarov before it could get
within weapons range of the space station. Analysis of the
drone’s remains confirmed what everyone had feared: the
drone had been reprogrammed and upgraded by the
technophage, outfitted with an APEX bomb.
Denver Interplanetary Spaceport
It had long been suspected that the technophage had
achieved some form of sentience, and the attempted attack on
Vantage was the first real proof.
This revelation makes what’s going on at what used to be the
Denver Interplanetary Spaceport even more worrisome. Almost
overnight the technophage cannibalized all the drones in the
Denver area, and used their component materials to create a
shield over what was once the largest spaceport on Earth.
This shield, and the sight-blocking light screen that appeared
soon after, make it very difficult to tell what is going on. What is
known, however, is that the majority of drones in the area have
been called to the former spaceport. Once they arrive, they
pass beneath the spaceport’s barriers and are never seen again.
Some speculate that the drones are being broken down and
recycled into something else. What this might be is anyone’s
guess, but it is making people very nervous. The spaceport is
watched constantly and the shield is the target of near constant
bombardment, but thus far it has been difficult to determine
whether or not these methods have been effective.
Vantage
Located at Earth-Moon (E-M) Lagrange Point 1, directly
between Earth and Luna, Vantage is a spaceport that overlooks
the former home of humanity. It is a common tourist
attraction, featuring a number of observation decks that
provide an astonishing view of Earth.
It is also a museum of Earth’s history, and a base of
operations for quarantine forces.32
Vantage has always been a popular location for those still
loyal to the fallen nations of Earth. In fact, it is often rumored
that the majority of the staff in charge of maintaining Vantage
are in league with remnant forces opposing the Coalition.
The Eye of Sol
On the far side of the moon, at E-M Lagrange Point 2, is the
Eye of Sol. This is one of the two public jump gates in the
system. The original Eye was destroyed near the beginning of
the Consolidation Wars, but it has since been rebuilt.
The Eye of Sol features a hotel for travelers, and a small
museum dedicated to the Consolidation Wars and the founding
of the Coalition.
Ansari Station
On the other side of Earth, directly opposite of Luna at E-M
Lagrange Point 3, is Ansari Station. This massive space station is
actually a shipyard owned and operated by House Dalianis. It is
the largest space-based shipyard in the known galaxy, and is
home to many thousands of workers and their families.
In addition to the work areas, Ansari also features what could
only be described as a multi-layered city consisting of stacked
disks. While it is mostly populated by House Dalianis citizens
who work at the manufacturing facilities, it also features a few
thousand people from other Houses who provide supporting
services, entertainment, and so on.
Primatech Labs
Primatech Labs is located at E-M Lagrange Point 4, and is a
House Jinzhan R&D and manufacturing facility primarily
devoted to providing ordinance and armaments for the ships
and kill-sats responsible for maintaining the Earth quarantine.
Primatech is also where the remains of the drone sent to
attack Vantage are being kept, in an attempt to reverseengineer the modifications that were made to it by the
technophage. This is being done in a highly secure portion of
the station, and no one outside of House Jinzhan has been
allowed to see it. This is causing a great deal of conflict
between Houses Jinzhan and Dalianis, who have in the past
been comfortable allies.
Of course, the other Houses want a look at the drone as well,
and the issue is beginning to escalate. In the last seven months,
four House Jinzhan scientists have disappeared, all of which
were on the team assigned to study the drone.
Officially, they are on vacation.
Sentinel Station
At E-M Lagrange Point 5 you will find Sentinel Station. The
Sentinel is not only the largest space-based Coalition military
compound, it’s the largest compound found anywhere. The
station is primarily operated by House Silva (specifically, its
Valkyrie subsidiary) and House Tsarya, and serves as both a
base of operations and a hub for distribution of military assets.
Most military equipment comes through the Eye of Sol and gets
processed through Sentinel before being sent to its final
destination.
Sentinel Station also houses several hundred compilers
capable of producing restricted items such as military weapons,
explosives, weaponized bacteria, and more. In addition, it has a
large number of resurrection chambers on hand for decanting
fallen soldiers or receiving those who were needle-beamed to
the site. It is also one of two locations that soldiers are sent to if
they are to undergo Apotheosis, something the Coalition
military strongly encourages.33
Luna
Gravity: .16G
Length of Day: 27.3 Earth Days
Estimated Population: 8.5 mil
Notable Settlements/Locations:
• Serro: The largest city on Luna, site of the original colonies.
Primarily consists of tightly secured labs run by House
Silva. Serro also serves as House Silva’s seat of power.
• Asola: Asola is the second largest city on Luna. It contains
House Tsarya’s largest manufacturing facility in the solar
system. It is known for its poor blue-collar workers, many
of which are apostates. Asola has a very strong Purist
tradition, which House Tsarya strongly supports.
• Rho: The Jewel of Luna, Rho is a city devoted to
entertainment and relaxation. Rho is primarily backed by
Houses Silva and Cipriani, but also contains a heavy
apostate population. It is also inhabited by an Alliance
remnant force called the Talons of Freedom.
• Odysseus Station: A large House Dalianis space station
located in lunar orbit, where the most advanced of jump
gate technology is researched.
The first alien soil a human ever set foot on belonged to
Luna, and it has held a special place in our heart ever since. We
have come a long way since then, though, from the first
manned missions to an eventual colony. Three sprawling cities
now dot the lunar landscape.
Dozens of smaller settlements also adorn the landscape,
most of which are former mining sites or labs built for
particularly dangerous research. Some of these places still
support life, but because of the mining industry’s recent decline
most have long since been abandoned.
High above the surface cities are several dozens of space
stations. The vast majority of these are set up to perform
research and development of technology that is banned from
surface work by Coalition law. Houses Silva and Jinzhan
perform most of their more controversial work on these
stations.
Serro
Serro is the largest of the lunar cities. It grew slowly as the
original colonies expanded, then underwent rapid expansion
through the use of Vulcan swarms. It is now a sprawling series
of domes, within which are a number of large multi-story
complexes—much like cities, themselves. Most are two to
three square miles in area, and climb to heights of around one
hundred to one hundred and fifty stories.
The complexes, often called hives, are connected with
bridges and mag-rail trains. Skiffs can be rented at all hours for
those who want more private transportation.
The hives use gravitic technology to compensate for the
relatively weak lunar gravity, though most of the ground level is
not outfitted with gravity generators. Due to the health
concerns over the negative effects of prolonged microgravity
exposure, it is illegal to take up permanent residence outside
the hives. Apostates, of course, generally don’t respect the law
and sometimes the occasional cybersleeved apostate decides
to carve out a hide-away for himself on the surface level.
The surface still sees a lot of business, though. Despite the
weak gravity, or perhaps because of it, Serro’s surface level is
very much a tourist attraction. The streets are filled with small
shops and enclosed play areas for those who enjoy bouncing
around in a safe low gravity environment. Of particular note are
several Crash fields. While not as popular in other places, this34
variant of American-style football features suspended goals
through which the player with the ball must leap.
Most of the people living in Serro are members of House
Silva. The city is home to most of Silva’s elites, and the hives are
mostly made up of the hundreds of labs devoted to Silva’s
biotech research and living quarters for the lab workers.
Asola
Asola is the second largest city on Luna. Like Serro, Asola
sports the Vulcan swarm-built domes that provide atmosphere
and protection for its inhabitants. Unlike Serro, though, Asola
tends to be lower class.
Where Serro has massive domes, Asola features a larger
number of smaller domes filled with shorter, sprawling
manufacturing facilities. These macro-factories are used to
compile and assemble products for House Tsarya.
These factories mostly produce the House’s ground vehicles
and components for its warframes. Other less significant
interests revolve around template writing for basic household
items, along with shipping, receiving, and warehousing larger
items or equipment for the military.
The workers here tend to be poor, and a large number of
them are apostates working to gain membership in the House.
In the late 2130s, Houses Jinzhan, Tsarya, and Silva managed to
pass a law that forced Houses to accept any apostate who
wished to become a recognized citizen. Though, the guidelines
covering these membership laws vary from House to House.
On the surface, House Tsarya appears to be the House most
open to taking in apostates. While this is true, many would
describe the process as nothing more than glorified slavery.
House Tsarya welcomes all, but makes obtaining membership a
very difficult process—assuming the applicant gets in at all.
House members are, of course, treated much better than
apostate workers. Once they manage to rise above the
“apostate drones,” the newly initiated members of the House
are bestowed a meager Rep bump and are granted the benefits
of any other citizen. To someone who has spent most of their
life toiling in a dark Asolan factory, life as a citizen is paradise.
Life in Asola revolves around either working for House
Tsarya, or providing goods and services for those who do.
Ground vehicles are far more common than skiffs here. Gravity
is provided for the surface and in living areas, but not in areas
where heavy objects need to be moved.
The Asola lifestyle tends to be rather oppressive, and it
shows in the city itself. Despite tireless efforts, the city seems
perpetually dirty. The air is not filtered as well as it should be,
and most of the city lies in a constant state of disrepair. It’s not
uncommon to stumble into an area with a malfunctioning
gravity generator or too much carbon dioxide. A short, hot
breeze of carbon dioxide or a moment of near-weightlessness
isn’t so bad, but a gravity generator with a bad power regulator
can crush you before you know it.
As one might expect, Asola’s brand of entertainment tends
toward the seedy and violent. The downtrodden apostate
workers need to vent, so they spend their undervalued Tsaryan
credits (which they are paid with instead of Rep or gold) on
anything that can take their mind off their woes: alcohol, drugs,
prostitution, gambling, cage fighting, and worse.
Rho
Rho is the smallest city on Luna, but in many ways it’s one of
the largest in the galaxy. Called the Jewel of Luna by some and
New Vegas by others, it is run primarily by Houses Cipriani and
Silva. Rho is the entertainment capital of the Sol system.35
Indeed, no other city so extravagantly caters to the whims of
the privileged.
But there are two sides to Rho.
On the surface, Rho is inviting and awe-inspiring. Every
aspect of its architecture is beautiful, and its people no less so.
The Apotheosized parade around in Siren, Satyr, and Paragon
sleeves, and even the pure generally have the resources to
sport high-end cosmetic augmentations.
Look a little deeper, though, and you’ll see the ugly side of
Rho. This city is a battleground in the Shadow War. It’s where
influential people go to meet with mercenary crews, where
stolen goods are fenced, where illegal hardware is sold for Rep,
and where souls are sold for gold.
Rho only features a single large dome, and the whole of the
city fits within it. It surrounds an artificial lake, Luna Lake. Luna
Lake is bordered by parkland around its entire perimeter, which
features a large number of animals originally found on Earth.
These animals, including squirrels, foxes, deer, and more, are
cloned and cared for by a subsidiary of House Silva called Vitae.
Only four large towers dot the skyline, each belonging to a
different gambling guild. These guilds are subsidiaries of House
Kimura, Tsarya, and Silva. Most of the other buildings are no
larger than two to three stories.
The entire city is serviced by a system of gravity generators,
though several places turn them off in certain areas to fit a
theme or for microgravity recreation. The city also features a
number of theaters, sporting arenas, virtuality kiosks, shopping
malls, and hundreds of bars and nightclubs.
All of this buzzing activity is a convenient blanket for illegal
activity, which is why Rho is so often the location of choice for
patrons who wish to hire mercenary crews for operations.
Rho also makes for a handy base of operations for a remnant
of the United States military called the Talons of Freedom. The
Talons were responsible for some of the more devastating
attacks on the budding Coalition, but was not present at the
battle of Tellerus Fields.
After Tellerus Fields, it became clear that the only way to
defeat the Coalition would be through insurrection. Since then,
the Talons have been working to infiltrate the Houses, or
barring that, sway disenfranchised citizens to their cause.
The Talons are one of the largest suppliers of black market
goods in the galaxy, but their primary stock and trade lies in
weapons and armaments. They need to outfit their ranks with
the best military hardware they can get, and the Houses always
have the best stuff.
Odysseus Station
Perhaps the largest of the lunar research stations is Odysseus
Station. Here, House Dalianis works on new designs and
modifications to jump drive technology.
Three months ago, a large section of Odysseus Station
exploded. Over three hundred people were reported dead. The
official statement from House Dalianis was that a fire had
started and managed to get to an oxygen line.
However, rumor has it that a mercenary crew was deployed
by House Jinzhan to steal something, and that Dalianis blew
those decks to keep the mercenaries from getting away.
What the crew was meant to steal is not known. Some
rumors claim it was a design for a jump drive that can reliably
work inside the gravity well of a planet, something called a
space bridge. Still some claim that they were just after a
ranking member of House Dalianis. This rumor continues that
they killed the man and took his mnemonic core, needlebeaming him off the station before the explosion.36
Mars
Gravity: .38G
Length of Day: 1.03 Earth Days
Estimated Population: 21.2 mil
Major Settlements:
• Olympus: The largest human city and seat of the Coalition
government. It is known for its awe-inspiring monuments
and gorgeous architecture. Olympus is built upon
Olympus Mons and consists of multiple wards, most of
which feature multiple tiers. The wards are connected by
a large number of high-speed mag-rails and a beanstalk
connects Olympus to Helios.
• New Turin: A smaller city built over an old mining
operation. New Turin is poor by Coalition standards and
suffers from a disproportionate amount of crime, much of
which stems from a remnant of the old Earth Russian
mob.
• Remus: This city sits at the base of a beanstalk and on the
outskirts of a lakebed constantly bombarded by ice
asteroids brought in by House Silva towing ships. The
town mostly consists of workers in cybersleeves who
work to make sure water gets filtered and distributed to
the other Martian cities.
• Helios: Helios is a large floating city that is connected by
beanstalk to Olympus. It is home to most of Olympus’
most prominent citizens and features some of the best
colleges in the galaxy.
• Charon: One of two cities located in the massive Valles
Marineris trench, Charon sports a thriving transhuman
movement and is home to those doing the best research
on terraforming technologies.
• Minos: The other city in the Valles Marineris, Minos was
once the site of a large mining operation. Now, the mines
are no longer used and it is largely deserted except for a
budding apostate enclave.
• Phobos: One of the Martian moons, Phobos is home to a
single city—itself called Phobos. This city is the seat of
power for House Dalianis, and sports their largest
production facilities. House Jinzhan also owns factories
here and the two Houses work together to expand and
maintain Olympus and Helios. Phobos is also home to
Thetis Revival Labs, the largest resleeving facility in the
galaxy.
• Deimos: The other Martian moon features two cities,
which are nestled within its two largest craters. Kratos is a
city devoted to the Coalition military. Voltair is a city with
a very large Catholic population, which has recently come
under attack by transhuman extremists.
As one of our neighboring planets, Mars has long been a
source of inspiration and wonder for mankind. Finally, in the
year 2034 the first human set foot on the red planet.
Humans trickled to Mars steadily after Charon, the first
colony, was established. During the Exodus, Mars became the
secondary destination, after Luna, for dropping off refugees.
Vulcan swarms were deployed by the hundreds to make room
for the new Martians, and in time a number of arcologies grew
out of the Martian landscape.
The largest of the Martian cities is Olympus, a beautiful
metropolis of domed urban sprawl that covers much of
Olympus Mons, the largest mountain in the solar system.37
Olympus
While Olympus Mons is the largest mountain in the Sol
system, it has a gentle slope. It was on these slopes that eight
different arcologies, called wards were built. Since the original
foundation layers were built, the wards have grown both
outward and upward.
The wards have grown in tiers, each stacked over the top of
the other like stacks of massive metallic pancakes. Each ward
has two to three tiers, with about a kilometer of space
separating each. The undersides of the upper tiers provide light
to the ones below in the daytime.
The wards are connected by a series of mag-rail lines that
transport people between wards. There are also several
spaceports, which radiate out from the wards like spokes on a
wheel, and a space elevator that attaches to Helios above.
The largest ward, called Rostra, is home to the Senate. It’s
also home to a number of museums commemorating various
events in human history. The extravagant monuments and truly
amazing architecture of Rostra is simply breathtaking, and
could only be created using Vulcan swarms.
But don’t let the extravagance fool you—Rostra is a fortress:
its public areas watched by over fifty Monitors. It also has a
large number of automated guns and other less obvious
defense mechanisms such as anti-missile PAc systems and a
dome that’s half-again as thick as the other domes on Mars.
Despite the layered security system, the all-seeing eyes of the
Monitors can’t catch everything. This was recently made
abundantly clear when famed transhumanist spokesman and
House Kimura dignitary, Proximo Pessoa, was attacked and
killed by a Purifier. Proximo was restored from a backup later
that day, but the identity of the murderer has yet to be
revealed.
New Turin
While Olympus is known for its tight security, one Martian
city is gaining a reputation for lawlessness...
New Turin grew out of the largest mining operation in
Martian history. It was once a bustling city predominantly
managed by Houses Silva and Cipriani. But when expansion
began to slow, the Houses largely abandoned New Turin.
The loss of the Houses created a power vacuum, one that a
remnant of the old Russian mob came in to fill. These days,
while the citizens of New Turin officially belong to a number of
different Houses, most really owe their allegiance to the mob,
which has taken to calling itself House Turin.
This newfound loyalty to “House Turin” has turned New Turin
into a dangerous place. ARIS strips are regularly torn from
walls, and the people have become more than a little
xenophobic. Outsiders are typically distrusted for fear that they
might be Coalition or House loyalists out to harm them or
House Turin.
New Turin survives because, in the end, its citizens are
members of the Coalition. Their crimes tend to be petty, and no
one wants to divert resources to cleaning the place up. But If
they knew how much of the black market was fed by New
Turin’s compilers, or about Turin’s connection to multiple
Federation remnant forces, thing might be very different.
Remus
A few hundred miles outside of Olympus is the small city of
Remus. Calling it a city is pretty generous, as it’s actually more
of a town.
It is the only inhabited area on Mars that doesn’t feature a
dome. Instead, it consists of a massive, heavily fortified aboveground complex from which sprouts a massive space elevator.38
Most supplies meant for Olympus or the other Martian cities
come down Remus’ beanstalk, and every few days tow ships
bring in another ice asteroid and slam it into the basin a few
dozen miles outside of town.
These iceteroids provide Mars with all the clean water it
needs. It is gathered, taken back to Remus for filtering, and
then distributed to the other cities via aboveground piping
systems. While it is possible to create water with a compiler,
purifying existing water is a much faster process.
The people of Remus are almost all transhumans wearing
cybersleeves. Much of their work requires them to leave the
confines of their vehicles or sealed habitats, and the hazards of
their jobs make wearing cybersleeves a sensible choice.
Of course, this leads to a pretty pro-posthuman culture
among the people of Remus. This has led to two ascension cult
outbreaks over the last decade. The last, a group calling
themselves The Nest, were turning themselves into a sort of
cybernetic insect hive.
Had it not been for the combined efforts of three
Praetorians, Mars’ water supply might have been endangered.
Helios
Floating in orbit above Olympus is the city of Helios. The
entire city is built inside a ring, which spins and rotates to
provide both artificial gravity and a day-night cycle.
Its main spaceport is in the center of the ring, which connects
to a space elevator leading down to Olympus. Mag-rail lines
serve as spokes, connecting the hub to the ring itself.
For the most part, Helios is a center of leisure and education.
While most people no longer bother with attending school at a
specific location, there are still some who feel they benefit from
congregating with like minds in the flesh.
Most of Helios consists of carefully tended parks and forested
areas broken up by small communities that support the local
colleges. The colleges are open to all Coalition citizens with a
Rep-Rating of 7 or more, and the six largest play a number of
organized sports or virtual games that interest and entertain
people throughout all of humanity.
Helios is also where most of the Coalition’s senators live, as
well as the three Praetorian Generals.
As one might expect, with so many important people in one
place, Helios is heavily guarded. At least two dreadnaughts
patrol nearby at any given time, and the outer surface of the
ring bristles with defensive weaponry.
Charon
The site of the first Martian colony, Charon was built in the
Valles Marineris trench and now serves as a research post
devoted to projects that focus on terraforming the planet.
As of now, the best plan to terraform Mars is to raise the
core temperature of the planet in hopes of starting a chain
reaction that will pump more and more carbon dioxide into the
Martian atmosphere. Unfortunately, there are a number of
[Monitor Observation: 984350927; 20:52:15-
08,14,99; Section B27; 35-72-AB]
[Notice: Video Obscured]
“You bring the stuff?”
[Voice Analysis Commencing]
[Voice Analysis Complete – Citizen ID: RS43GR97]
[WARRANT FOUND – CENTURIAN DISPATCHED]
“Shut up, idiot!”
[Voice Analysis Commencing]
[Voice Analysis Complete – Citizen ID: NOT FOUND]39
problems with this plan, not least of all the potential for
tectonic activity that could lead to an eruption of the otherwise
dormant Olympus Mons.
Charon tends to collect a lot of optimistic scientists, and thus
a lot of transhumans. Unlike Remus, however, the transhuman
population of Charon tends to favor biological modification.
Perhaps because of this, both Houses Silva and Kimura have
taken an interest in Charon and its people. In fact, many of the
minds at work on solving the terraforming problem are
Kimuran SIMs.
House Silva has also set up a resleeving facility here, and is
helping fund something called the Genesis Project. This project,
named for both a book of the Bible and a reference to old presingularity science fiction cinema, focuses on creating selfsustaining ecosystems in an expanding dome system along the
floor of the Valles Marineris trench. This project has resulted in
the first true forest on the planet’s surface.
Minos
Minos is the site of another now-dormant mining operation.
Thought by most to be a ghost town, Minos is now the site of a
budding apostate enclave. The apostates here are in contact
with the gangsters of so-called House Turin and act as
middlemen in exchanges between the mob and apostates from
other planets.
Like Charon, Minos is located in the Valles Marineris trench,
though most of the outpost is underground.
Phobos
The Martian moon, Phobos, features a single city of the same
name. This city serves as the seat of power for House Dalianis,
and for the most part, functions as both a massive factory and
resort for high-Rep members of the House.
The city of Phobos consists of three primary domes, within
which are a series of massive tower-like structures not unlike
the hives found on the Lunar city of Serro.
The hives of Phobos serve as both living spaces and
recreation areas. Between the hives are the manufacturing
facilities where the largest ships in the known galaxy are built.
House Cipriani also has factories here, leased from House
Dalianis. These factories are used to assemble and prep the
APEX reactors that will power the ships, and the two Houses
work together with Jinzhan to provide power, habitat
expansion, and maintenance to all the settlements on Mars.
Of note, Thetis Revival Labs can also be found on Phobos.
Run by House Silva, Thetis is considered by most to be the best
resleeving facility in the known galaxy and is attended by some
of the best mnemonics engineers. House Dalianis makes good
use of Thetis, since they offer big bonuses to members of the
House willing to switch sleeves for jobs that might require a
more specialized approach.
It might be boring and dehumanizing to spend your days as a
glorified forklift, but once the contract is up and you’re back in
a biosleeve, most feel the rewards are worth it.
[Tac-Comm v1.76.3/ 07:17-03,21,97]
[Reagan] – We need a place to reset.
[Anders] – Now is not a good time, Reagan.
[Reagan] – You owe me, Anders. We made a
deal. We need a place to stay in Minos.
[Anders] – You, crazy, and scary?
[Reagan] – Wait… which is which?
[Anders] – You need a better class of friends.40
Deimos
The other Martian moon, Deimos, features two major
settlements, one in each of its two massive craters.
The first, Kratos, is a city purpose-built to train Coalition
military forces. Here, recruits undergo weapons training,
tactics, pilot training, and any other specialized education the
recruit might be qualified for.
The other city, Voltair, is where most of the soldiers who
aren’t stationed in Kratos live, and is the home of many of their
families as well. This small city features two large domes, and is
rather spread out for a city
built in such an inhospitable
location.
Of note, Voltair tends to
have a disproportionately
large Catholic population.
The Catholics generally have
strong Purist values, which is
at odds with the military’s
propensity to encourage
recruits to undergo Apotheosis. This tends to create a lot
of friction in the community
as Catholics try to dissuade
young recruits from
undergoing the procedure,
and ostracize those who do.
This friction remained
nonviolent until recently,
when a person entered a
church wearing a female
Courier sleeve packed with
explosives and blew herself up. The perpetrator was restored
from backup and charged with the murder of fifty-one people.
However, the backup was old and the woman claims that she
has no ill feelings toward the Purists and that it wasn’t really
her who did the killing. This event has rekindled old debates
about whether or not a restored ego should be charged with
crimes it has no memory of committing; the argument being
that the restored ego cannot properly defend itself in court
given that it lacks important details, and that it really isn’t the
same person.41
Asteroid Belt
Gravity: 0G
Length of Day: Varies
Estimated Population: Varies between 60–80k
Notable Settlements/Locations:
• Raiding Launch Points: A number of asteroids have been
commandeered for use as staging areas for raids launched
by pirates and remnants of the Federation and Alliance.
• Tartarus: A maximum-security prison, run by House
Dalianis, in orbit between Mars and the asteroid belt.
• Ceres: Ceres is the primary source of water for Mars. Its
main two settlements are an ice cutting and shipping
facility called Trident, and an orbital shipping facility
called Anapos Station.
For years, the Houses have mined the asteroid belt that lay
between Mars and Jupiter for raw materials. Thousands of
asteroids have been used for this purpose in the past, and
despite a recent decline in mining, many are still being leached
of their resources today. Houses Silva and Dalianis primarily run
these mining operations, but some of the other Houses do a bit
of mining here as well.
The frequent mining of the past also means many of the
larger asteroids now feature huge canyons or tunnel complexes
that make them ideally suited for building cobbled together
space habitats. Pirates, remnant forces, and other riff-raff often
use these depleted asteroids as convenient bases of operations.
Most notable among the lawless of the asteroid belt is a
faction of Purifiers responsible for a number of antitranshuman attacks in the last few years. They call themselves
the Children of Adam, and are most recently responsible for
blowing up a bank of SIM server arrays in Rho; an attack that
resulted in the permanent deletion of over fourteen thousand
people. Scout probes have been sent to search for the Purifiers’
base of operations, but so far they haven’t found anything.
Among the many dozens of secret hideouts and still-active
mining operations, there are two additional settlements of
note.
Tartarus is the most well-known and highly populated
maximum-security prison in the known galaxy. This station, run
by House Dalianis, drifts at the edge of the asteroid field on the
Mars side, and typically houses between 30 and 40 thousand
prisoners at a time.
The other settlement of note is Ceres. This planetoid and the
surrounding iceteroids provide Mars and Luna with the majority
of their water. This process requires the use of two primary
facilities.
Trident is a small town built up for the purpose of housing
the workers needed to cut and ship the ice up to Anapos
Station, a space station used to collect the ice and off-load it to
tow ships headed to other worlds.
[NetLink Log: 16:32-09,03,99]
[Grady] – I’m thinking about taking the offer and
getting an Ingot sleeve.
[Juna] – You’re going to resleeve?
[Grady] – Thinking about it. Since the Ingot was
certified as mining gear, the House will provide
the sleeve and I get a bump.
[Juna] – Didn’t you just get that sleeve a few
months ago? Aren’t you worried about
fragmenting?
[Grady] – Nah. Besides. The offer is too good to
pass up.42
Jupiter
Gravity: 2.36G
Length of Day: 9.8 hr
Estimated Population: 2.8 million, counting the population on
its moons and in orbit around them.
Notable Settlements/Locations:
• Europa: The oceans beneath the ice of Europa have long
fascinated humans as potential sources of life. IT Alpha is
a subterranean research station run by Houses Cipriani
and Silva, which is dedicated to exploring these oceans
and its life forms.
Jupiter itself is of little interest to anyone. Its environment is
simply too hostile and lacks any resources worth the risk of
gathering.
One of its moons, on the other hand, is quite interesting
indeed.
Europa
The oceans beneath Europa’s
frozen surface are home to the
first extraterrestrial life forms ever
discovered. Since the time of their
discovery, millions of other species
have been discovered on the
exoplanets mankind has settled.
Even so, Europa’s life is still
something of a mystery.
The aquatic life forms of
Europa’s oceans appear to have
gone through rapid evolutionary
cycles, growing far more complex
much faster than life evolved on Earth.
The reason for this is unclear, but the scientists stationed on IT
Alpha sure would like to know.
IT Alpha is a massive underwater research facility owned and
operated as a joint venture between Houses Cipriani and Silva.
It houses a crew of just under a thousand people.
Of late, IT Alpha has been experiencing a number of troubling
phenomena. There have been a number of odd power outages,
and a never before seen mold has appeared in the
environmental systems. Thus far, getting the power back on
and keeping the mold clear haven’t been major problems, but
now a larger-than-average number of the station’s inhabitants
are being diagnosed with cancer. While cancer is relatively easy
to cure these days, the source of the problem and whether or
not it may be linked to the other odd events are still under
investigation.43
Saturn
Gravity: 1.06G
Length of Day: 10.2 hr
Estimated Population: 12.5 mil
Notable Settlements/Locations:
• Titan City: Sharing the name of the moon it is found on,
Titan is the largest city outside the asteroid belt. It is used
as a hub for local mining operations.
• The Rings: The Rings are composed of specks of dust and
water ice that are scooped up and sorted as part of a
massive multi-House mining operation.
Like most of the outer planets in the solar system, Saturn’s
surface offers little of interest. Its rings and largest moon,
however, offer water and vast amounts of raw materials.
Titan City
Saturn’s largest moon is actually larger than the planet
Mercury, and is home to Titan City.
Titan City grew up around the mining operations that take
place in Saturn’s rings. It is home to thousands of workers, and
outside of Olympus, it is probably the most diverse city in the
system for members of the different Houses.
The city’s two major industries are the processing and
shipping of materials gathered from the rings, and the
gathering and filtering of water from Titan itself.
Titan City is not a domed city. Instead, the city is comprised
of a series of concentric rings. Each of these rings is hundreds of
layers thick, pressurized, and contains its own environmental
system. Bridges and pressurized passageways span the half
kilometer spaces between the ten rings, with the center section
serving as the base of a massive space elevator.
A number of massive towers rise from the rings. These
towers are operated by different Houses and primarily serve as
centers for organizing the distribution of materials mined from
the rings. They also serve as homes for high-Rep members of
the Houses.
Materials harvested from Saturn’s rings are delivered to one
of sixteen docks arranged between Titan City’s ninth and tenth
rings. From there, the materials are transported to designated
processing facilities, with the finished goods then sent to the
ports located between the next two rings (eight and nine) to be
exported. Most of the processing facilities are located on layer
nine.
The central rings feature a number of spaceports used for
passenger vessels, and tend to see a large amount of traffic.
Titan City is the primary source of resources for all the Houses,
and as such tends to get a lot of attention from high-ranking
dignitaries.
While the high-Rep Coalition citizens dwell in the towers or
oversee operations at the processing facilities, the less
fortunate toil away on the lower levels. Here, apostates hoping
to earn their way into a House and low-Rep citizens gather
materials for sorting, transportation, and pre-processing.
Perpetually shadowed by the layers above, the lower levels
of the rings are home to the poor and desperate. But where
there is desperation, there is crime. And where there is crime,
there is a need for law enforcement.
The House representatives of Titan City recently granted a
policing contract to a subsidiary of House Dalianis called
Lighthouse. Lighthouse is a security firm with a reputation for
both efficiency and brutality. While they’ve come under
scrutiny for their less-than-subtle methods, for the most part
the Houses are very happy with the way they keep the riff-raff
in line.44
Uranus
Gravity: .89G
Length of Day: 17.9 hr
Estimated Population: 84k
Notable Settlements/Locations:
• The Colony: A large apostate community. The Colony is
made of a patchwork of spacecraft and fabricated
structures floating deep beneath the outer layers of its
atmosphere. The APEX drives from the ships,
supplemented by cold fusion reactors, provide power to
the structures.
A gaseous mass of hydrogen, helium, and methane at the
edge of the system, Uranus has little to offer. Its atmosphere
features some small amount of water, but its distance from Sol
makes it impractical as a source of resources.
The fact that Uranus is of little interest to the Coalition is its
greatest asset—at least to the apostates of the Colony.
The Colony
One of the larger apostate enclaves in the Sol system, the
colony consists of a vast network of ships and prefab structures
that have been linked together into a single massive station
that floats deep beneath the outer layers of the planet’s
atmosphere.
The Colony is made up of several hundred ships, from
smaller cargo craft to the largest ship, The Kraken, a carrier ship
thought to have been lost to remnant forces just after the
battle of Tellerus Fields.
The people of the Colony get by on what they can. Most of
the ships at their disposal have been permanently connected to
the ship network, but many can be disconnected and
reconnected as needed. These transients, as the locals call
them, venture out in search of trade goods and supplies or to
harvest resources from Uranus.
While the Colony primarily makes use of its ships’ APEX
reactors, this power is supplemented with cold fusion reactors.
Conveniently, Uranus is comprised largely of hydrogen, which is
used to provide the reactors with fuel.
The culture of the Colony is one of vagabonds and the
displaced, but it is also one of community and family. Everyone
pitches in to do their share, and crimes (including acts of
negligence) that endanger the Colony are punished swiftly and
often severely.
Of late, however, the usual attitude of peace that pervades
the Colony has been upset. The Colony has drawn the attention
of the Children of Dionysus, a group of pirates and drug runners
that has been using the Colony as a potential source of supplies
and recruits.
Most of the Colonists have no desire to deal with the
Children, but they come bearing weapons and gold. Thus, many
are afraid to refuse trading with them.
To make matters worse, a transient ship called the Red
Herron has recently gone missing. Most of the Colonists blame
the Children, a stance that could soon lead to outright
aggression. Still others, mostly the few that are comfortable
dealing with the Children, suggest that Coalition forces
captured the Red Herron. If that were true, though, why has
there been no public report of the incident?
The Colony fears that they may be looking at a fight in the
near future, but whether it will be with the Children or the
Coalition is unknown.45
Neptune
Gravity: 1.12G
Length of Day: 19.1 hr
Estimated Population: 43k
Notable Settlements/Locations:
• Naesock Processing Hub: A large space-based processing
facility set up in orbit around Triton to provide resources
and logistics support to spacecraft mining the arcs.
• The Arcs: Great swaths of minerals in orbit around the
planet. These arcs contain a large amount of rare
elements.
Neptune is an ice giant planet. It is one of the coldest
locations in the Sol system, and has little to offer outside of the
materials that make ups its arcs. Like
the rings of Saturn, Neptune’s arcs
consist of wide bands of useful
material debris. Unlike Saturn’s rings,
though, the arcs do not hold a uniform
shape and tend to contain rarer
elements.
Naesock Processing Hub
Located in orbit around Triton, the
Naesock Processing Hub is a massive
space station built to act as a shipping
and storage center for materials
gathered from Neptune’s arcs.
While it once staffed as many as five
thousand workers and management
staff, the decrease in mining during
the last decade has led to the official closing of over half the
facility.
Even so, the space hasn’t gone to waste.
Separated from the upper half of the station by thirteen
unused decks, the lower half of the station has turned into a
small apostate enclave and thriving black market trade center.
As one might expect, though, this sort of activity can’t go
unnoticed.
Officially, the lower half is a warehouse for House Silva’s old
weapons tech. Unofficially, House Silva keeps a lid on what’s
going on and uses the enclave as a major point of contact with
their apostate allies and a way to keep their finger on the pulse
of the black market.4647
NOTABLE EXOPLANETS
Chengdan
Distance from Sol: 14.5 LY Gravity: .97G
Established: 54 PS (2099 AD) Estimated Population: 9.3 mil
Hiske Electronics, one of the founding corporations of House
Kimura, colonized Chengdan in 56 PS, only a month after their
probes first discovered it. After discovering that Chengdan
exhibited extraterrestrial flora and fauna, House Kimura spun
into an exploratory frenzy.
Out of all the Coalition’s planets, Chengdan is undoubtedly
the oddest. The planet has a uniquely irregular rotation speed
and angle, which scientists believe was caused by massive
meteorite bombardment just a few thousand years ago.
The planet wobbles on its axis, and as such the seasons are
drastic and uneven. A typical year consists of a three-month
frozen winter, leading into a one-month temperate period,
followed by a two-month blazing summer. Despite these
inhospitable conditions, life has flourished on the planet’s
surface. Much of it covered in what could only be described as
an evergreen jungle. The trees are capable of weathering the
drastic temperature shifts, sporting roots that dive deeply into
the ground in search of water. The animals and plants of
Chengdan are extremely hardy and adaptive, with the
predators evolved to be extremely tough and aggressive.
Like the native wildlife, Chengdan’s citizens have had to be
exceptionally resourceful to survive. The planet has little in the
way of water on the surface, but there are underground
pockets of water and rivers all along the planet’s crust. The
surface is littered with mobile drilling platforms, which mine
most of Chengdan’s water supply. Temperate periods are by far
the most productive times, since the extremes of heat and cold
require workers to consume more resources. Thus, at the end
of every month the platforms pick up and move to the next
temperate zone. Most of the mined water goes to New Tokyo,
Chengdan’s megacity capital. It is then distributed to the
dozens of other settlements that might need it.
New Tokyo is the original colony established by House
Kimura, which has expanded steadily since its inception. Given
the planet’s nature, the House originally considered it
impractical to establish multiple settlements. Instead, House
Kimura decided to expend its resources expanding the original
settlement. This growth continued until New Tokyo became so
large that geographical obstructions made it much less practical
to expand further.
Only recently, since expanding New Tokyo has become so
difficult, have the people of Chengdan begun branching out
into other settlements.
Aside from New Tokyo, there are only five other relatively
small cities and a few dozen smaller facilities. Chengdan is
mostly Kimuran property, but House Silva was particularly
ecstatic about the unusual life forms inhabiting it and managed
to purchase three plots of land in different climate zones.
Of late, reports have been coming in from exploratory
expeditions that claim to have seen strange humanoids living in
the wild. It is speculated that these are posthuman aberrants,
and that there are several cells of them. A few hunting parties
have been organized to bring them in, but most never see
anything. Some claim that the creatures are definitely of human
origin, and are using primitive tools and weapons, with armor
that seems to have been grown from their bodies.48
Cygnus Alpha
Distance from Sol: 52 LY Gravity: 1.04G
Established: 53 PS (2097 AD) Estimated Population: 6.5 mil
Cygnus Alpha was the second colony to be established
outside of Sol, originally colonized by Keppler Shipyards in late
2097. Keppler wanted easy access to the abundant iron
deposits for the construction of their starships. Later, in 54 PS,
Giordino Automotive established a second mining colony
approximately thirty kilometers from the Keppler Site.
In general, the planet is rather inhospitable; the only reason
it was ever colonized was for its extraordinarily iron-rich crust.
The majority of its surface is too cold to sustain unprotected
life, with all habitats built along the equator where the average
temperature is within human limits. The cold is only one
obstacle of many, though. Cygnus Alpha has no ground water
and endures violent winds that commonly exceed 400 kmph.
This wind, coupled with the amount of iron in the ground, has
resulted in a surface littered with fields of razor-sharp blades
emerging from the otherwise barren gray soil.
To account for the wind, all of the major cities on Cygnus
Alpha are built inside deep canyons where they are shielded
from the biting gusts, allowing citizens to walk about in the
open. The atmosphere is breathable, but is extremely dry.
Worse yet, nighttime temperatures plunge well below freezing,
even along the equator.
The settlement keeps surface travel to a minimum.
Traversing the planet’s sharp rocky surface with ground
vehicles is slow and dangerous, while air vehicles have difficulty
flying and landing in the extreme winds. To avoid these
hazards, surveys are done by orbital satellites, which allow
tunnels to be drilled from the main outpost to the lode. Over
the years, these tunnels have grown into a vast network that
resembles an ant colony. The cities themselves remain located
in the canyons for the most part, where interplanetary traffic
can easily reach them. However, there still exist hundreds of
smaller subterranean outposts that once housed workers.
This tendency to travel beneath the surface caused some
problems during the Consolidation Wars. Keppler and Giordino
had managed to avoid each other, but after the start of the war
Keppler quadrupled its production of warships. It wasn’t long
before the two companies started accidentally claiming the
same lodes, resulting in more than a few physical altercations.
In the wake of the Exodus, Cygnus Alpha saw a rise in
population as surviving family members and new workers
flocked to the colony. The end of the war and the influx of
workers and resources allowed tensions to settle a bit, only to
flare back up again as the Houses took power. Federation
forces dug deep into the tunnels, making it exceptionally
difficult for the Coalition to dig them out.
Both Keppler and Giordino joined Houses, but the years of
bad blood were too much for their still-fresh House loyalties to
overcome. In the end, it took a Kimuran strike team wearing
recon warframes to dig them out.
After the fighting, Cygnus Alpha grew to accommodate the
influx of new faces, and even enjoyed a period of prosperity
after the Coalition solidified its power. Unfortunately, the
demand for mining began to drop after the fighting ceased, and
the population began to dwindle.
Eventually, Cygnus Alpha’s population shrunk to less than
half of what it once was. Its cities now provide more space than
its citizens need, and the all-but-abandoned tunnels are once
again home to apostates, smugglers, pirates, and worse.49
Proch
Distance from Sol: 8.5 LY Gravity: .87 G
Established: 54 PS (2096 AD) Estimated Population: 11.7 mil
Proch is different from all of the other Coalition exoplanets
for two reasons. The first, and most obvious, is that it was the
first human colony to be established outside of Sol. The second
is that when it was founded in 53 PS, it was not done so by any
one corporation, but rather by both the Federation and the
Alliance just before the onset of the Consolidation Wars. Both
sides wanted exclusive control over the system, and both
planted a handful of cities in an effort to claim it as their own.
This competition would prove to be one of the sparks that
ignited the Consolidation Wars.
The city of Samara, which grew from the first Federation
colony, quickly expanded to become a center for trade and
industry for corporations interested in supporting the
colonization effort.
Newcastle was the site of the first Alliance colony, and
seemed to be built with defense in mind from the very
beginning. The city was fortified, and its growth stimulated, by
Alliance military interests.
Skirmishes broke out on Proch between the Federation and
Alliance a few years before the official start of the
Consolidation Wars. It eventually escalated into full-out war for
control over the planet itself, and continued several years into
the Consolidation Wars. It wasn’t until the fall of Earth that the
conflict truly died down on Proch.
After the Exodus, Tsarya’s component corporations, having
made a killing from the years of groundside combat, used this
wealth to assert control over the planet’s governments. The
Alliance resisted only to be quelled by force, but the Federation
chose to retreat to a hidden base of operations in the jungle.
The Federation maintained a guerilla campaign against House
Tsarya for over a year before detonating a nuclear bomb in the
heart of Newcastle. This act of aggression is said by many to be
the primary catalyst for Tsarya’s attitude toward apostates.
Tsarya’s response was brutal and efficient, ending the conflict.
Proch was not just the first exoplanet to be settled, it was
also the first planet discovered with a complex ecosystem. The
surface is covered in a variety of terrain, and it is the most
geographically diverse exoplanet. It echoes Earth in many ways,
specifically Earth’s Mesozoic period, most noticeable in the
planet’s natural inhabitants.
Large reptiles and ferocious mammals still roam the forests
of Proch. These large, at times massive, creatures have become
a source of much interest for many of the Coalition’s people.
The creatures have provided scientists with many hours of
amusement, and a gruesome end to more than a few would-be
adventurers.
Samara sports a massive zoo for those who want to get a
look at Prochian wildlife without fear of being eaten,
showcasing many of the indigenous species.
Hunting, both for sport and for capture, is extremely
common here, with some of the smaller, less dangerous
creatures even sold as pets. The names that hunters give their
catch tend to stick more readily than their real names. The
given names tend to be descriptive or draw from old folklore.
Perhaps the biggest prize a hunter can bring back is the head
of a “dragon,” which is a loose classification for several
different extremely massive reptile/avian hybrid species. They
are extremely deadly, and it is said that anyone attempting to
take one down without a warframe is as good as dead.50
Sagitta
Distance from Sol: 57.6 LY Gravity: 1.22G
Established: 62 PS (2105 AD) Estimated Population: 6.2 mil
House Dalianis has a reputation for being expansionist, and
Sagitta is further proof of that. Despite already having stakes in
Cygnus Alpha, Keppler Shipyards established a colony in 62 PS
on what would later be called Sagitta. The planet itself offered
very little of value; the only purpose of the settlement was to
expand humanity’s reach. Keppler understood that the
Consolidation Wars might rip humanity apart, and Sagitta was a
contingency plan. Crews were sent to prepare the planet for a
massive influx of population in the event that the war led to a
required evacuation. In the end, the colony turned out to be
worth it, as many flocked to Sagitta after Earth fell to the
technophage.
Sagitta originally held no semblance of life. The planet was
impacted at some point by a large asteroid, though, bringing
with it a host of elements and single-celled organisms. It hit
with enough force that much of the debris was launched into
orbit, leaving a large empty chasm in its place where much of
the foreign material settled. Over time, the foreign life grew
into basic plant life, and a small proto-atmosphere developed
from within the chasm.
By the time Keppler’s initial survey team got there, the chasm
had enough of a breathable atmosphere to sustain human life
with very few adjustments. Earth plants were transplanted to
kick-start the process, and a small mining facility was built in
the planet’s debris ring to gather and deliver materials to the
construction teams and Vulcan swarms. The ring was
instrumental in speeding up the construction of the various
settlements by providing needed resources in-between
shipments from Earth.
Upon completion of the initial settlement, expansion work
began. While the work took three years, the result was six cities
built in the chasm. They were small, but suitable to house the
initial wave of colonists. These colonists continued the work,
and by the time of the Exodus there was enough room for
many of the refugees.
Keppler eventually became a part of House Dalianis, which
still holds the majority of power on Sagitta, even though it is
shared with other Houses. One city was sold to Kimura, another
to Tsarya, and Jinzhan was allowed to build one of their own as
payment for Dalianis’ extensive use of Jinzhan’s Vulcan swarms.
Overcrowding has not become an issue yet, and it shouldn’t
for at least a few decades given the slow rate of reproduction
common of Coalition citizens. The chasm has become mostly
self-sufficient as far as water and atmosphere are concerned. In
fact, the atmosphere of the chasm has begun to slowly expand.
The expansion might have happened naturally, but scientists
are hard at work developing methods to accelerate the process.
It is speculated that life might be able to grow on the rest of the
planet in a couple hundred years with only some minor
terraforming.
Outside the crater, Sagitta is mostly dead rock. Exploration
teams venture out in search of points of interest detected by
orbital satellites. So far, the only notable find has been a slight
anomaly in the planet’s magnetic field centered on a valley
several thousand kilometers north of the crater’s rim.
The anomaly is very minor, detectable only by sensitive
equipment. Survey teams have been dispatched to the area,
but so far have not turned up any results.51
Sanctuary
Distance from Sol: 70 LY Gravity: 1.07 G
Established: 78 PS (2121 AD) Estimated Population: 9.4 mil
It’s important to note that Sanctuary is not a Coalition planet.
It is the latest human colony, having been founded in 78 PS, but
it was founded by apostates.
Many took heart in the success of the Uranus colony, and
decided to take the concept even further. It took several years
to acquire all of the necessary equipment, both through theft
and black market trading. During this time the apostate fleet
used Neptune as a staging ground, covertly harvesting
materials from the arcs. When the fleet finally launched, they
slipped out of the Sol system at sub-light speeds. Only after
they were out of the system did the apostates join up with the
jump-capable Santa Maria to begin their search for a home.
The HD413 system was not at all a first choice for the
apostates, but supplies and the potential for discovery were a
huge concern by the time they found it.
Sanctuary is entirely covered in sand and sandstone rock
formations; it also is extremely hot, due to its proximity to its
sun. That said, it was more than eighteen light-years from any
Coalition planet, and despite the rough conditions it didn’t
require any terraforming to live on. The colonists chose to
ground their ships halfway between the equator, where the
temperature low of 100 degrees Celsius makes it uninhabitable,
and the north pole, where the humidity is too low for water
condensers to support a colony. Just prior to landing, the ships
fired transponders into the sand at the equator, burying them
deep beneath the surface. If any Coalition forces came to
Sanctuary, the transponders would be remotely activated,
providing a distraction to buy time for the colony to evacuate.
At first there was only one settlement on Sanctuary. The
original ships were interconnected like those at The Colony on
Uranus, but buried under the sand to hide the structure from
orbital viewing. The ships have been almost entirely shut down,
using power only for necessary life support functions. Air needs
are met through disguised vents on the surface, covered with
anti-particulate meshes to defend against frequent sand
storms. Food is hydroponically grown, or brought in by
smugglers.
Since its founding, however, this colony has grown into an
underground city called New Montreal. For the most part, the
apostates live relatively well. They have a very poor standard of
living compared to even a defaulter on a Coalition world, but
for them the tradeoff is worth it.
Over time, more apostates have flocked to Sanctuary, but
very few of these refugees have brought ships large enough to
offset the population influx. This influx, combined with natural
population growth, is causing much concern amongst the
colony’s leadership. In the last decade, more and more
construction has taken place on the surface. Sick of living
underground and in tight quarters, many have already begun to
establish surface communities separate from New Montreal.
Some colonists fear that incoming colonists will be discovered
by the Coalition, and living on the surface will leave them
exposed and unprepared. However, a recent election has
changed the colony’s leadership, and the newly empowered
progressives have been able to sway public opinion in support
of surface expansion.
The new government intends to build a true city on
Sanctuary, called Valhalla. Unfortunately, progress on this city
has stalled without access to a Vulcan swarm. Thus, acquiring
one has become a top priority.52
Shouye
Distance from Sol: 56.3 LY Gravity: .88 G
Established: 72 PS (2115 AD) Total Population: 3.6 mil
Shouye was the last Coalition planet to be colonized, having
been founded in 72 PS. It was founded out of necessity, not
convenience.
For years after the fall of Earth, the surviving Chinese lived
aboard ships, refusing to accept any colony’s offered
hospitality. Finally, probes found a planet that met their
criteria, and the refugee fleet set course.
The planet was a lucky find. It was more like Earth than they
could have hoped for, teeming with beautiful greenery and far
from any other Coalition system. A carpet of moss, algae, and
lichen had produced a high-oxygen atmosphere, which in turn
resulted in plentiful, large insect life. The planet required little
effort to colonize, and was even compatible with Earth flora
and fauna.
The insects of Shouye are worth noting not only for their size
but also their aggression. Many are large enough to pose a
danger, even if they aren’t poisonous. Still, the people of
Shouye are prideful, and often use the most dangerous of the
insects as mascots, in company logos, and in the media.
The formation of the Coalition did not go over well here. The
Chinese government still had a lot of power, but its citizens
owed a great deal to the companies that would eventually
become House Jinzhan. But in time, the remnant of the old
Earth government crumbled, and House Jinzhan was born.
In the years following House Jinzhan’s emergence, the
flourishing world became the Coalition’s largest source of
naturally grown food. Despite reservations, House Jinzhan
allowed an import/export program to form, bringing valuable
trade to its citizens. Shouye has been good to its people, who
have been expanding. Numerous cities dot the main continent,
and many more farming communities cover its plains.
Jinzhan now allows open trade to flow through Shouye, but it
commits a tremendous amount of resources to protecting its
home. Access to the planet itself is extremely restricted; only
those on official House business and Jinzhan citizens are ever
allowed to leave the stations in orbit. Access to the Icarus Hubs
and other stations in orbit around the planet is also carefully
controlled, but not as heavily as surface access.
Jinzhan customs procedures are extremely thorough, and
every ship must wait in line to be searched. Any unscheduled
vessel has to be vouched for by a high-ranking member of
House Jinzhan or they will be refused access. Even in the event
of an emergency, a ship may only dock with a military vessel.
Recently, a group of apostates was caught trying to sneak
into the station and onto the surface. They were blown out of
the airlock, and their ship was destroyed by a Jinzhan cruiser.
No system is totally secure, though. It is unclear how the
apostates got past security, or if they were present before the
launch of Shouye Customs. The evidence points to remnants of
the old Chinese government still active on the surface.
Unfortunately, no one is quite sure where the remnant forces
are located, or how they are smuggling goods on and off the
planet. An official investigation has been launched into all
customs personnel. Even the name of the remnant forces group
is unknown, but they are believed to use Shouye’s tiger wasp as
an identifying symbol.
One thing is clear: The remnant is making an effort to acquire
Vulcan swarms and compilers. Whether they intend to use
them to build up their military